MATT: Hello everyone, and welcome to
tonight's episode of Critical Role,
where a bunch of us nerdy-ass voice actors
sit around and play Dungeons & Dragons.
ALL: (hollering) We play Dungeons & Dragons!
MATT: That may be the most ridiculous one yet.
TALIESIN: Thank you.
MATT: It's on the possible range.
TRAVIS: We try.
MATT: You do.
Anyway, welcome!
Before we jump into tonight's session,
we have some announcements to get through
beginning with the first of our two sponsors tonight,
the beginning, the first one, NordVPN. Sam.
(techno beat)
(frantic keyboard clicking)
SAM: We're almost in, Cryptonic.
Only one more firewall to the Ultra Codex.
LAURA: It's taken 18 straight hours
of side channel spoof dashing,
but with NordVPN's help, we're going to crash this code.
(exhaling)
(laughter)
SAM: A-Teaming the small wonder.
LAURA: Grinding the log stroker.
SAM: Gleaming the cube.
SAM and LAURA: (gasping) Simul-sliced?
Again?!
LAURA: But how?
We're protected by NordVPN,
a personal virtual private network service provider
that shields your activity and blocks annoying ads.
SAM: And it's easy to download at NordVPN.com/criticalrole.
But if the two 1337est hackzors
on the web can't break the Ultra Codex--
Ah, maybe we should just de-res our logins.
MATTHEW: Negatronic!
SAM and LAURA: What?!
TRAVIS: Nani?
(yelling)
MATTHEW: It is I, the Cereal Killer, broadcasting
coast to coast to help foil this heinous scheme.
SAM: But wait!
I heard after da Vinci, you went dark, you de-booted.
MATTHEW: Sure, I control-alt-deleted from your existence.
But from my world, I've been
watching you in my virtual mainframe.
I haven't seen clu-- (stutters)
(laughter)
MATTHEW: -- cube gleamers like you since the '90s.
And I've got news: the Ultra Codex is hackable.
LAURA: Impossible.
We've tried everything.
SAM: Yeah.
MATTHEW: Oh, yeah.
You've been hacking heavy metal,
but have you tried the Mobius device?
(grunting)
(gasping)
(laughter)
MARISHA: Whoa.
LAURA: You mean the legend is real?
MATTHEW: Zero one one zero zero one one.
SAM: That's binary for yes.
LAURA: I know that's binary for yes.
MATTHEW: Cryptonic Override, BlackWillow73@aol.com,
I give you the secret key into the hacknet.
With it, you will feel like a god.
Now get ready to jack in for justice.
SAM: Okay.
MATTHEW: I can't see, my--
(laughter)
SAM: There's no depth perception.
MATTHEW: No depth perception.
On my mark, un-Gary the sys dot Gygax.
(yelling)
SAM: Okay, the modem is buzzing.
(frantic keyboard clicking)
MATTHEW: Switch the phantom logic on triad protocol.
LAURA: Alpha channel?
MATTHEW: No, damn it, beta.
LAURA: Positronic, target online.
MATTHEW: Wait, they throw up a DOS
blue cipher on the long freak.
SAM: Are they trying to skizzjam our Goof Troop?
MATTHEW: I'm blasting through the portal,
force them down the 4chan.
Now just enter the password.
SAM, LAURA, and MATTHEW: It's swordfish!
(yelling)
(digital bleeping)
(dial up tones)
MATTHEW: Excellent, they fell right
into my trap and got fried.
Now no one'll stop my Ultra Codex because
Black Willow and Cryptonic Override are in the internet.
And because I'm protected by NordVPN,
they will be in there forever.
(evil laugh)
Speaking of NordVPN.
(laughter)
MATTHEW: It's their 8th birthday and everyone who gets
a three year plan will receive one additional month free.
That's incredible! That is a gift!
Critters, you have got to log in
to NordVPN.com/criticalrole
or use the coupon criticalrole at checkout.
Matt Mercer, hack to you.
(laughter)
ASHLEY: Wow.
MATT: Holy shit.
ASHLEY: Yeah!
TALIESIN: Oh my god.
(laughter)
MATT: Thank you.
Thank you, Matt Lillard.
TRAVIS: Fucking Matthew Lillard.
MATT: My--
(cheering)
ASHLEY: Oh my god.
TRAVIS: Oh, shit.
MATT: I think we've gone too far.
I think we've finally gone too far.
TALIESIN: Well, I've peaked.
MATT: Yeah, yeah.
Shut it all down, guys.
(laughter)
MATT: Thank you, Sam, thank you, Laura,
thank you, Matthew Lillard, and--
LAURA: What?
MATT: Thank you, NordVPN,
for sponsoring our show and whatever that was.
SAM: No, no.
LAURA: No no no no.
SAM: We're Laura and Sam, Cryptonic Override--
LAURA: Don't know what you're talking about.
ASHLEY: You're not, I'm sorry--
TRAVIS: Do you know what happened just a second ago?
SAM: No, we were in the--
LAURA: We were both--
SAM: Backstage, we were--
LAURA: We had the shits.
SAM: We had the shits.
(laughter)
MATT: Thank you guys for finally showing up, then.
LAURA: Simul-shits?
SAM: We had the simul-shits.
SAM: What? Again?
LAURA: Again?
(laughter)
MATT: Oh my god.
TRAVIS: Oh my god, my face hurts.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: A single Chekhov play.
MATT: Yeah, yeah.
That's what happens when you don't do theater too long.
(laughter)
You start doing this shit.
Thank you, NordVPN.
Our second sponsor tonight,
our friends at D&D Beyond, who have been with us
since the beginning of the campaign.
(cheering)
Thank you guys so much for supporting our amazing show.
If you haven't had a chance to check out or use their tool,
their amazing online digital tool for keeping track of
your campaigns and your characters and all other facets
of your D&D playtime, it's awesome.
They, today, updated the most recent revision
of the Blood Hunter class, which I created
and recently revised as part of a great
DMs Guild charity push, bundle push
to help for relief for the Australian bush fires.
It went really well, the amazing community contributors
at DMs Guild put together numerous great packages
and I think altogether, between DMs Guild and DriveThruRPG,
they raised over $300,000 for charity, which is amazing.
Super happy to be a part of that all.
The Blood Hunter is now on D&D Beyond for free
and you find it at DMs Guild as well for download
for free as well.
TRAVIS: That's amazing.
MATT: Let's see, we got a few other announcements here.
Laura, you got something to talk about.
LAURA: Super excited to officially announce
that we have arrived at Hot Topic.
(cheering)
MATT: My inner 16 year old is going,
"What?!"
LAURA: On so many levels, today, just so many levels.
Yeah, so a lot of you have already noticed
and may have already gone to the stores and seen
our four shirts and our hoodie, if you guys want to.
Do-do da do-do da doo!
Oh wait, there's a hoodie, too.
MARISHA: Oh, wait, wait, eh, eh, ooh.
LAURA: Oh my.
MARISHA: Oh.
LAURA: So yeah, they're online and they're at the stores.
You can find them online, hottopic.com/criticalrole.
If you can't find them at your local store,
just ask the store's associate for help, they can maybe,
they can order it, they can ship it to you.
I know that some of them are already
sold out online, but they're on
back order right now and they're getting more.
What?
TALIESIN: Or you could turn
your local Hot Topic sales associate on to Critical Role.
LAURA: I mean, just spread the gospel.
So yeah, you can only get these shirts through Hot Topic,
so you can go check it out now.
And I should definitely say that
the Mighty Nein illustration one.
TALIESIN: That one.
LAURA: Yes, that one is Selina Erika Esperitu.
MARISHA: Ooh.
LAURA: The Mighty Nein doodles, Wendy Sullivan.
TRAVIS: Yes!
(applause)
LAURA: Our Mighty Nein logo, which we use in many places,
is by Crystal Sharp.
So thank you to our fabulous artists as well.
MARISHA: ♪ Critter artists. ♪
MATT: Hell yeah. Thank you, Laura.
I don't know, it's weird.
Oh. Yeah.
Also, a couple other heads up here.
Tomorrow night at 7:00pm Pacific,
here on our Twitch channel, you get to join us
for Valentine's Day, if you're chilling at home,
for our fabulous Monsterhearts one-shot.
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: Which includes our Taliesin Jaffe, Ashley Johnson,
and friends and members of the family now
here at Critical Role, Erika Ishii and Ally Beardsley.
It's ridiculous, it's fun, it's dark, it's real.
It's going to be a lot of fun, so check it out.
If you haven't had a chance yet to check out
Monsterhearts the game, it's incredible.
It's designed by Adria Alder, Avery Alder, there we go.
Make sure I get that wrong.
It's a great game where we
get to be teenagers in high school.
Also, secretly, monsters and all sorts of chaos and tension
and angst and stuff ensues.
So check it out tomorrow night here at 7:00pm
and it'll be VOD thereafter and will be on YouTube on Sunday
for those who can't check it live, so look forward to that.
MARISHA: And it's sexy.
MATT: We also have
our visit coming up to Chicago for C2E2 convention.
TRAVIS: ♪ Chicago! ♪
SAM: The announcements.
MATT: Super excited to meet all you guys
who are coming out to be part of the event there.
We still have some pre-sale autographs and photo op tickets
available for C2E2, so check it out,
if you haven't had a chance yet, on their website.
As well as their website for pre-purchase pre-sales there.
I think that's all I have on that.
Travis, you have some things.
TRAVIS: Yes, yes yes yes.
So our good friends at OSD announced earlier this week
that Xbox is going to match every dollar donated
up to $250,000,
which doubles the impact of your donation,
so please head over to weareosd.org
and click the Our Latest Campaign link
in the header before March 31st.
Thank you, OSD, thank you, Xbox, that's incredible.
Show some love.
ASHLEY: Woo!
MARISHA: Yay.
MATT: Awesome.
(applause)
SAM: We clap now, it's a thing on our show. (laughs)
MATT: Yeah, there you go.
Ever evolving.
I believe that is it.
So let's go ahead and jump into
tonight's episode of Critical Role.
(roaring)
(water bubbling)
(booming)
(explosion)
♪ Role, Critical Role ♪
♪ Critical Role ♪
♪ Roll the dice ♪
♪ The adventure begins, they were always beside you ♪
♪ Your nerdy best friends and the DM to guide you ♪
♪ And they rise from the flames for the battles ahead ♪
♪ Villains beware because you're 'bout to be dead ♪
♪ They got magic and flair, they got falchions and cunning ♪
♪ They don't see over there, there's a monster incoming ♪
♪ Inspiration is waiting ♪
♪ Rise up, don't think twice ♪
♪ Put your fate in your hands ♪
♪ Take a chance, roll the dice ♪
♪ Critical Role (roll the dice) ♪
♪ Can you answer the call ♪
♪ Diggin' deep in your soul ♪
♪ As the legend unfolds ♪
♪ Now it's your turn (your turn, your turn) ♪
♪ To roll ♪
(flames whooshing)
MARISHA: -- ores.
MATT: And welcome back.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Hackzors.
TRAVIS: I don't claim to know her.
MATT: So last we left off, The Mighty Nein
had found their way to Kamordah and the mountains northward
to try and engage with the old crone,
the Prism Sage Isharnai, to break the curse
that still holds Nott within her physical form.
A deal was struck through the use of
memory altering magic via Jester
and you escaped without conflict,
for the time being, with the creature.
You battled some undead in the swamp
as you fled into the night and after survival
and a safe rest, you made your way back to Rosohna,
where you collected yourselves, your intent,
and asked Essek if he could help transport you
to the Whitedawn Lagoon, where it seemed
visions of Caduceus' Wildmother-given journey,
and finishing what his family
had set out to accomplish, lie.
After transporting yourselves to the exterior of the jungle
where it seems the Circle of Beasts,
the oasis that contains one of these collections,
the Stone family in particular,
that is the next step of this vision quest.
You made a parasol for Essek and sent him on his way
(laughter)
and you began to traverse the dangerous jungle.
A short time into your journey,
rest was taken and night was set.
In the middle of your evening's watch,
Jester was called away from the camp spot by a familiar
green cloaked figure.
Called by the Traveler to the shadows of the jungle.
The Traveler revealed a lot more
about his past than you were previously aware,
learning that the Traveler may not be entirely
a god in the sense that you had anticipated or believed,
but had discovered Jester many years ago,
as this entity traversed the land,
saw chaotic kinship within her,
and this worship that Jester gave,
this love and trust that was placed into this entity,
gave it purpose in a way it wasn't expecting,
which led to it seeking other people
to join this family of belief and trust
and forthright interest in adding
more chaos to the world around them.
He also revealed himself to be
a long, orange-haired
fey entity
and revealed that he had no idea what he was doing
and he desperately needed your help.
And that was where we left off.
The Traveler, hood held back,
standing above you, tall, lanky, graceful limbs,
eyes filled with mysterious age and
anxiety
looking towards you, continues on.
"I am not any less than I have been,
"for the pretense itself is a bit of trickery
"and I think that even you can appreciate that, Jester.
"I am Lord Artagan of the Morncrown
"and I am the Traveler.
"You, Jester Lavore, are my protege,
"and most prized pupil.
"You hold the purest priorities
"to see the world turned on its head.
"I know I can trust you.
"Would you help me?"
LAURA: Well...
Obviously.
MATT: "Good, good.
"I knew I could believe in you."
LAURA: (laughs) Um.
I guess, Artagan?
MATT: "The Traveler is fine."
LAURA: Traveler.
Do you want this?
MATT: "I think I--"
LAURA: Do you want to be a god?
TALIESIN: (coughing)
MATT: "I don't know.
"I'm enjoying aspects of it.
"I've enjoyed the adoration,
"I've enjoyed the extensions of my
"tangled web finding its way to
"generally twist and tease the mundane idiots
"that seem to permeate this plane.
"But I've reached a point where I generally
"don't know what to do from this point forward.
"I don't know if I have too many followers.
"I don't know if I should just cut free and run away."
LAURA: Well, I mean, do you get more power
from more people following you?
MATT: "It feels that way to an extent."
LAURA: If they follow you, do you have to answer them?
MATT: "Not always.
"I mean, I haven't always answered you.
"Though I wish I could've, trust me,
"I really wish I could've, but I'm but one entity."
LAURA: Well, I mean, whatever we decide,
I mean, are you still going to hang out with me?
MATT: "If you'll have me."
LAURA: Okay, good.
I would be really sad if, you know,
you didn't want to do that anymore.
MATT: "Oh, if I was to leave, I'd take you with me."
LAURA: Oh, that's fun. Where would we go?
MATT: "All sorts of places.
"Now that the doorway has been opened for some time,
"I think we can travel quite easily
"through many of the planes, maybe other worlds."
LAURA: Really?
MATT: "This is but one of many Prime Materials.
"I'd be curious to see what else lies out there, hmm?"
LAURA: Me too! I mean, we have to, you know,
take care of some stuff here first, but.
Do you know what's going on with everyone that, you know,
I'm hanging out with?
MATT: "No, not entirely.
"They seem rather boorish.
"Though, I do worry that half-orc mama's boy
"seems to have picked up on my recent
"sloppiness, if you will."
LAURA: Oh, well he would never judge, you know.
He's actually really polite and, I mean, yeah,
kind of a mama's boy, but not in that way.
I mean, he's really reliable,
is really what it comes down to.
MATT: "Your friends, your companions--"
LAURA: Yeah, yeah.
MATT: "What are their thoughts on us?"
LAURA: They all seem pretty supportive of it.
You know, some of them are like,
"Oh, I don't know, I've not heard of him before,"
and I've told them all about you,
so they know.
MATT: "Well, I mean, it's still
"kind of a new thing, we're working on."
LAURA: Right, right.
MATT: "The branding aspect
"is its own challenge."
LAURA: But here's the question:
I mean, should I be telling people about you?
MATT: "Well, of course, that was the whole idea."
LAURA: Well, I know, but the more people I tell,
the more people that are going to want to
rely on you--
MATT: "I know!"
LAURA: And you'll have to answer to them. What do we do?
MATT: "That's why I'm here. I don't know!
"I like the attention--
LAURA: Okay, okay, okay
MATT: "But--"
LAURA: I have, here's an option.
MATT: "Yes?"
LAURA: What if, you know,
at Traveler Con, we establish you as, like,
this god that can always hear, but you're more like
the other gods, you know, that are like,
oh, you know, like, okay.
So Caduceus, he worships, like, this Wildmother
MATT: "I'm familiar."
LAURA: Yeah.
So like, when he asks her questions,
you know what she does?
MATT: "Nothing?"
LAURA: She blows the wind.
Exactly, she does shit.
(laughter)
So and he's like, "I sensed, you know,
"I understand what she's saying."
She's not doing anything, but he thinks she is.
MATT: "Interesting."
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: "And he seems, ugh, content?"
LAURA: Yeah, yeah. He's, like, totally into her.
MATT: "(sighs) People are strange."
LAURA: I know.
So you could be like that, you know,
where people ask you things and you don't do anything
and they'll still think you're doing something.
MATT: "But I've already been so involved.
"Won't they be disappointed if suddenly
"I'm just not appearing?"
LAURA: Well,
we just have to establish it as, like,
there's, like, a new way of doing things, you know?
MATT: "Interesting."
LAURA: Like, you've gotten so powerful
that you're always-always with us
and you hear our thoughts and,
you control everything and--
MATT: "So the party is a goodbye,
"kind of, loosely."
LAURA: But not for me, not for me,
just for all those other people
that are, like, less important.
MATT: "And now they have friends, they've met, they can--"
LAURA: They can rely on each other.
MATT: "I love that.
"When anything goes good, it's because of me.
"If anything goes bad, it's because of them."
LAURA: Right! Or, you know, they'll find
greater purpose in the bad things, you know.
They'll be like, "Oh, everything happens for a reason."
MATT: "It's ridiculous."
LAURA: I know.
MATT: "But I'm happy for them to be content with that."
LAURA: I know, I know. So.
MATT: "Nothing happens for a reason,
it's absolute fucking chaos."
(laughter)
LIAM: This guy.
ASHLEY: Help him.
TALIESIN: Oh no.
LAURA: So I mean, one of the things we could do, you know,
what if I just had everybody, like all my friends,
you know--
MATT: "Yes?"
LAURA: What if we got to Traveler Con and we were all, like,
your high priests and high priestesses and stuff?
And, like, we helped establish
how the religion was going to be, you know?
We could show people how to pray to you
if they haven't done that before, you know?
MATT: "All right.
"I'm going to warn you, it's a very eclectic mix."
LAURA: Are any of them as powerful as me?
MATT: "No, not at all."
LAURA: Okay,
so we can totally fool them.
MATT: "Yet."
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: "What?"
LAURA: Well,
you got to make sure I'm always ahead of them.
MATT: "Well, you're doing great.
"I'm not, look, just don't worry, just don't get lazy."
LAURA: (exhale) I'm never going to be lazy.
MATT: "I know.
"Well.
"So we gather your friends, convince them
"to help, you act as acolytes."
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: "We have celebration--"
LAURA: Yeah, what are we going to do there?
I mean, what do we just, like, give,
like, a concert or, like--
MATT: "No theater.
"But.
(laughter)
"Music, music perhaps.
"We can bring some performers in."
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: "Yes, yes.
"Refreshments."
LAURA: Yeah, obviously.
MATT: "Right, right."
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: "We could do some displays of power.
"I mean, it is a volcano, maybe we can make it erupt."
LAURA: Well, just make sure, you know, that,
well, I mean it would solve your problems
if, like, they all got wiped out at the same time,
I suppose.
MATT: "True."
LAURA: Then they wouldn't be relying on you anymore
but your power might get less.
MATT: "It's not even about the power at this point,
"it's just about keeping it interesting."
LAURA: Oh. Well, then, you know, that could be something.
But, you know, I'll be there
and you love me so much, that would be
not so fun, right? Yeah.
MATT: "Yes, no, valid point.
"No volcano."
LAURA: Yeah, okay.
MATT: "Yet."
LAURA: Wait 'til we leave.
MATT: "Maybe."
LAURA: Oh.
MATT: "So should it be like a
"ta-ta and I leave into the sky?"
LAURA: I mean, maybe we can make you, can you--
MATT: "Turn to dust, like--"
LAURA: Can you make yourself
grow, like, super, super, super big
and, like, fill up the whole sky
like, you know, like this great big presence?
And then you, like, lift up and you disappear
and we're like, "(gasps) He ascended."
MATT: "A visual ascension."
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
MATT: "And now I am with them at all times,
"not answering a damn thing."
LAURA: Right, but they'll think
you're even bigger than you ever have been.
You're answering to so many people,
you can't possibly be there with them personally.
MATT: "But they'll have each other.
"Delightfully foolish, I love it."
LAURA: We'll tell them you can
also communicate through the wind.
MATT: "I feel like that's a bit
hackneyed territory, to be honest."
LAURA: All right, all right, all right.
MATT: "Melora kind of leans in that space
"a bit heavy for me."
LAURA: Okay.
Well, we're steer clear of that, I guess, but.
MATT: "All right.
"Well, let's table the miracle for now.
"I'll put some thought to it.
"If anything comes inspiration-wise to you--"
LAURA: All right, but we should definitely come up with
some sort of ceremony to make you ascend.
MATT: "Right. All right, okay.
"I'll start assembling some flowers, pillars--"
LAURA: Ooh.
MATT: "An archway."
LAURA: Ooh!
MATT: "I've got some ideas."
LAURA: Ooh, ooh, ooh.
MATT: "Ooh, what?"
LAURA: Can you open up your gateway
and, like, bring some stuff in from another plane
and that way, like, people are seeing things
that they've never seen before and it'll make it, like,
even more powerful and special then?
MATT: "I, mm, I can open a gateway.
"The gateway to my
"'home' realm is a bit stationary,
"but I can still
"give the essence of it."
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: "I can make it presentory.
"Grandiose."
LAURA: I like it.
MATT: "Illusory but effective, especially for
"the layman."
LAURA: Okay.
And I will make programs,
you know, to pass out to everyone
so they'll have, like, something to take home with them
and they could get--
MATT: "Keepsakes."
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
MATT: "Interesting.
"Things to shadowbox."
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: "Good, good."
MATT: "No, it's important to have a physical memory
"of the occasion."
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: "A reminder. Good.
"See, this is why I came to you.
"I'm so bad at planning."
LAURA: You know--
MATT: "I'm more of a
"in the moment and improvised
"kind of--"
LAURA: I understand.
I mean, obviously we'll leave room for craziness to happen.
MATT: "Oh, there will be craziness,
my Jester, don't you worry.
"Hm, all right.
"This gives me much to think about."
LAURA: Did you want to come say hi to everyone?
I mean, they're going to be your high priests and stuff.
MATT: "They appear to be sleeping."
LAURA: That's true.
MATT: "Do they like being woken up
in the middle of the night?"
LAURA: I mean--
MATT: "How about I wait
"'til breakfast, after they have eaten?"
LAURA: We'll eat, then you will, like, come in,
see if we can fool them and make them think
that you're, like, even bigger than you are, right?
So like, they will, like, see what we can do for them
to make other, it'll be like a test run.
MATT: "Okay, so, mm, all right, so we're
"trying to trick your friends as well."
LAURA: Yeah, but then we'll let them know.
MATT: "I'll follow your lead."
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: "You'll know when I arrive."
LAURA: Yes, I will.
MATT: "Jester."
LAURA: Well,
I just,
but does this mean you're not always with me?
MATT: "It means I'll be with you
as much as I've always been."
LAURA: (sighing)
MATT: "And if they're not yelling into my ears as much,
"maybe I can be around more often."
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: "You're still my favorite."
LAURA: And you're always mine.
MATT: "Go, rest."
He extends his hand and you watch as
all the local bush bends and pulls away.
LAURA: Could you do this the rest of the time, though?
Because this would really help our trek through the jungles.
MATT: "Oh, I'm sure it, but I've got a lot to do with
"the planning and the individuals, you understand.
"But I'm, I've given you some tools.
"I'm sure you can find your way."
LAURA: I'll find my way.
MATT: "If you rely on me
"continuously, how are you going to prove yourself?"
LAURA: How will I be more powerful than
everyone else?
MATT: "Exactly."
LAURA: I'm going to find my way back.
You don't even need to make this path for me.
I'll take it, but you don't need to.
And walk really fast away so that he doesn't take it away
as I make my way--
MATT: Okay.
He does this with his hand and you watch
the little flowers go poop, ploop, ploop, ploop,
following your foot falls as you make your way through.
"It can just be beautiful, it doesn't have to be helpful,"
and you just run forward and look back and he's gone.
LAURA: My shoulders kind of slump.
And I go back to my tent, the dome, and I sit down.
Oh man.
Can you hear me now?
And I go to sleep.
MATT: Oh.
All right.
The watch goes uneventful throughout the evening,
thanks to the protectiveness of the dome.
The morning comes to.
It is warm as the dome
vanishes at the ending of its duration.
The humidity and the heat immediately comes in sticky.
You can hear the insects heavily
starting to buzz around you.
The air still has that strange earthy sweetness to it
like various flowers and heavy jungle plants
are giving off aromas to attract
insects or larger creatures towards them.
Oh my god, Sam.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Fuck--
LAURA: You stupid--
TRAVIS: Out of control.
(laughter)
MATT: (throat clearing)
But you all come to consciousness.
(birds calling in background)
TRAVIS: Ooh.
MARISHA: Ugh.
TALIESIN: (coughs)
MARISHA: (slap)
Ugh, bugs.
LAURA: No, they're not in here, don't worry about it.
TALIESIN: Oh, they're definitely in here.
LIAM: Dome's down.
MARISHA: The dome's done.
LAURA: No!
(groans)
MARISHA: Ugh.
LAURA: It's so much warmer here than I--
MARISHA: Everyone, drink water.
TRAVIS: Why?
MARISHA: Because it's hot and we've been sweating.
I'm drenched in-- are you drenched in sweat?
TRAVIS: I'm actually quite cool.
MARISHA: Drink water.
SAM: I go to reach for my flask and it's not there.
ASHLEY: Whatcha reaching for?
SAM: She said to drink.
MARISHA: Water.
ASHLEY: Water.
SAM: It's the same thing.
There's water in it. They use water to make it.
LIAM: Here, here is my skin.
MARISHA: I toss--
yeah, Caleb beats me.
(laughter)
LIAM: Great minds.
ASHLEY: I open up the flask
and I start drinking.
SAM: (scoffs)
(laughter)
MARISHA: Yasha. (snaps)
ASHLEY: Oh, did you want
some of this, too?
MARISHA: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ASHLEY: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
MARISHA: Thank you.
TRAVIS: I don't know if that's the most supportive thing--
TALIESIN: This feels a little harsh.
LAURA: Yeah, that's kind of harsh.
ASHLEY: You throw a person
into the deep end. Isn't the way you do it
and that's how they--
TALIESIN: If you're trying to
drown them, sure, you throw them into the deep end.
ASHLEY: Then you got to figure out how to swim.
MARISHA: I wasn't trying to prove any point,
I was just being super selfish.
TRAVIS: I don't think that hydrates you at all, though.
MARISHA: I already drank a bunch of water.
TRAVIS: Okay.
MARISHA: More than one.
LIAM: What are we doing this morning?
LAURA: Oh yeah, where are we going?
Do you know where we're going?
LIAM: I can get us out of here if we want to go now.
TRAVIS: Oh, that's right because that was
the whole point of sleeping.
LAURA: Wait, go where?
LIAM: Well, we could leave and head back to a city or--
LAURA: No, we're going to--
LIAM: --we are traveling on--
TALIESIN: We're on our way.
LIAM: Yeah.
You ready?
TALIESIN: Yeah. Yeah, I'm ready.
LAURA: Wait, before we go,
I have to pray to the Traveler...
SAM: Oh.
LAURA: ...to--
SAM: You do that, you pray daily now?
LAURA: Well yeah, I-- it's how I decide--
he helps me figure out what I'm going to do for the day.
TRAVIS: She draws a dick on a tree or something, I mean--
LAURA: Yeah, I'm going to go carve a dick on a tree.
SAM: Oh okay, well you should have just said that.
LAURA: And say: Hey, Traveler,
we're going to get going.
We had some breakfast and I'm going to carve this dick.
(laughter)
MARISHA: All right, while you carve that,
50 push ups, let's go.
TRAVIS: Fucking ... all right.
MARISHA: Yeah, come on.
MATT: You guys power through your push ups
before you begin to hear this dull cracking sound.
Right as Jester finishes her carving of the dick
on the side of a jungle tree, you hear (cracking)
as the outside of the tree begins to splinter and split.
From the edges of this carved dick,
you see flowers begin to bloom and erupt from it,
vines begin to suddenly start shifting out of it
at a rapid pace and swirling around,
encapsulating a large majority of this clearing
you guys have been sleeping in,
the fallen rotted log that you had
set yourself to rest against
being swallowed by these vines
as flowers of all colors begin to permeate.
The scent of the air immediately begins to change
to a very welcoming, bakery-like aroma.
You can see glowing fireflies
beginning to tangle through and swirl.
The wind becomes cool
and sends a chill through your back.
It's alarming, but you feel comfortable.
LAURA: Praise be!
SAM: What is happening?
What is this?
TALIESIN: Well, this is a bit weird.
SAM: Did you do this?
LAURA: The Traveler
has made his presence known!
(laughter)
MATT: You watch as the dick suddenly begins to fold into--
LIAM: Oh dear.
MATT: That's the base of--
MARISHA: Oh god.
MATT: To fold into the tree
and become a doorway--
MARISHA: Oh jeez.
MATT: A small doorway that grows in size.
LAURA: He travels!
LIAM: The base grows?
(yelling)
(laughter)
TRAVIS: It certainly made a dick hole.
LAURA: He travels everywhere.
To and fro, he travels great distances--
SAM: Why are you talking like that?
LAURA: --because he is a god.
MATT: A bright teal-ish light begins to emerge
from this carved hole in the center
that opens up into an arched gateway.
TRAVIS: Okay.
LIAM: Now that is a urethra.
(laughter, groans)
MATT: And stepping from it, you see, to you,
and a handful of you in glimpses,
a familiar green robed figure. (footsteps)
(birds calling in background)
TRAVIS: A few steps back.
LAURA: I get down and kneel and--
SAM: Is this...?
LAURA: This is the Traveler, Nott!
SAM: I know, but--
MATT: The hand reaches out
and touches the top of Jester's head.
"Thank you, my acolyte."
SAM: Oh.
MATT: "Hello."
LAURA: Everybody say hi
to the Traveler.
LIAM: Hi, hello.
TALIESIN: How you doing?
LAURA: He's a god.
So he's really cool.
MARISHA: 'Sup?
MATT: "Friends of Jester, you've traveled
"and kept her safe and for that, I am thankful.
"We are on the cusp of a grand event, one that
"Jester may need your aid in."
SAM: Oh.
LAURA: Should we just tell them?
TRAVIS: Understood.
MATT: "Should we just?"
LAURA: Should we just
tell them now?
MATT: "If you want--"
LAURA: I mean, you can tell them--
MATT: "Okay."
SAM: What's happening?
What is this?
MARISHA: Jes?
LAURA: So there's something really awesome
happening that I just found out about.
Um, the Traveler is
not actually a god-god god.
SAM: I'm sorry?
LAURA: But he's, like,
a mostly-god god?
MARISHA: Right.
I go up and I touch him.
(laughter)
I start doing this.
MATT: "Whoa, whoa."
He gets pushed back a bit and puts a hand up,
just as a reaction, and the vines around,
wrap around your arm and hold it in place.
MARISHA: Can I monk parry him?
LAURA: You're going to,
he's a god!
MARISHA: I just want to touch him.
MATT: Make a dexterity saving throw.
MARISHA: Okay.
TALIESIN: I believe in you.
MARISHA: Where are all my D20s?
LAURA: I'm jumping up and trying to get between them.
MARISHA: Where are my d20s?
(laughter)
Okay, dexterity saving throw?
MATT: Correct.
MARISHA: Okay.
22.
MATT: 22.
The vines, shh, come out towards you
and in slow motion, as they're about to
wrap around your wrists, you ch-ch-ch-ch-ch-ch
pull your arm out and then, snaps shut and he goes, "Shit."
MARISHA: I turn around. Yeah, not a god.
LAURA: Hey, I said he's a a mostly-god, not a god-god.
Okay, so here's the thing, I'm realizing now.
Maybe at Traveler Con, you don't appear in the flesh.
Like, you just should not appear.
SAM: What the fuck is going on?
What are you talking about?
LAURA: You should always be, like, bigger, right?
Because I think, like, if you're here as a person--
MATT: You watch as the Traveler's form
suddenly swells to about 15 feet tall,
the boughs cracking above him.
(groans) "I didn't think this through."
TRAVIS: Yes, maybe not, maybe back to normal size
for the introduction, maybe.
TALIESIN: Maybe come back down here, friend.
MATT: "(deeper) Is this too much?"
TALIESIN: It's a little much.
TRAVIS: Oh, god, jeez.
MATT: "I am the Tr-- ugh." He pulls the hood back
and sits on his knees (laughs) and goes (sighs).
Yeah, like huge fucking knees,
he's consuming half of this open space now,
the vines still around, there's still glittering firebugs,
but now he's just this sitting giant
with the bright mane of orange hair,
the elongated fey ears, the fine pointed features.
LAURA: I go up and pat his calf, that's probably about as--
MATT: He puts a hand down.
LAURA: I climb on his hand.
LIAM: Jester, to what do we owe this visitation
after so many months with you?
LAURA: Well, Traveler Con's coming up, right?
LIAM: Ja.
TRAVIS: Sure.
LAURA: And we got to figure out a way to make, you know,
all the other people attending Traveler Con
not have to talk to him as much.
Because it's annoying.
SAM: What does that mean? What do you mean?
TRAVIS: Ah, this is a lot. Okay, so--
SAM: Wait. First of all, who is this guy?
LAURA: Well, this is the Traveler.
SAM: But you said that the Traveler
was a god who's been with you forever
and whose faith you put, you follow--
LAURA: Yeah, okay, so here's the thing:
I was thinking about it a lot last night
and I don't remember you ever telling me
you actually were a god, so I can't--
MATT: "No."
LAURA: -- totally blame you for this.
MATT: "It was kind of an assumption
I wasn't quick to correct."
LAURA: I just--
MATT: "It felt nice."
SAM: No, but you--
ASHLEY: You just
told her all of this last night?
You thought this whole time--
LAURA: That he--
MATT: "Is this a bad idea?
"Should I go?"
LAURA: No, stay please.
LIAM: We have heard so much about you.
LAURA: See?
MATT: "I've heard a few things about you."
MARISHA: I saw you in Asarius.
Did you see me or was that a mistake?
Was I not supposed to see you?
MATT: "I was probably running--"
MARISHA: Were you drunk?
MATT: "Towards the end of my--"
MARISHA: You were drunk.
MATT: "-- end of my threads.
"I was not drunk, I was tired."
MARISHA: Okay, that checks out.
LIAM: If we may be so bold--
MATT: "Yes?"
LIAM: You're an almost-god, is this what you would
refer to yourself as, as an almost-god?
MATT: "Um." He sets Jester down a bit.
LAURA: (giggling)
MATT: "I am an unaffiliated
"what you would call an archfey."
SAM: What does that mean?
MARISHA: Arch--
SAM: Arch means evil, doesn't it?
MARISHA: Unaffiliated--
SAM: Like an arch-nemesis?
TALIESIN: Sort of half a circle.
LAURA: No, no.
SAM: Arch-rival? It's only used in bad things.
MATT: "It means greater--"
ASHLEY: Like the arch you just made.
LIAM: Great or grand.
SAM: Oh, okay.
LIAM: More than.
MATT: "I can do many things,
"but I am not a god,
"and I've been enjoying helping people.
"I've helped Jester for the better part of two decades now,
"I think it is, and in doing so, I think I've helped
"all of you quite a bit."
SAM: But, just to be clear,
you're not a god.
I thought you were a-- I thought you were a,
a holy magician, a holy mage.
LIAM: I think he is more like this. (snaps)
Frumpkin appears on the ground.
MATT: "Ah. (chuckles)"
SAM: But not him, her.
MARISHA: Yeah, where do you get your powers from, then?
LAURA: From him.
MATT: "Oh, that's also from me."
MARISHA: But you're not a--
MATT: "Oh, do you think
"gods are the only entities that can
"grant their essence and powers to lesser beings?
"What do you think demonic entities make choices with?
"I can already sense some dark deals in your
"half-orc friend here."
TRAVIS: Thank you.
MARISHA: No, I just think it gives a
little bit more credit to her, that's all.
MATT: "Oh, all credit goes to her, she's amazing.
"But just know just because I'm not a god
"doesn't mean that I'm not trustworthy
"or important or capable or a friend."
LAURA: He could kill all of us right now if he wanted to.
MATT: "I actually really could, it'd be very easy.
"But I'm not going to do that
"because that's not interesting, that's not fun."
LIAM: What are you here to do?
MATT: "Find things that are interesting and have fun."
TALIESIN: Huh.
LAURA: What if,
oh my god, ultimate trick?
MATT: "Mm-hmm?"
LAURA: You don't show up to Traveler Con?
What if everybody gets there and you don't come?
MATT: "I mean--"
LAURA: That'd be pretty great.
MATT: "It's a pretty good trick.
"Oh, so many angry people."
LAURA: I know, I know, I know.
MATT: "Are you okay with dealing
with that kind of customer support?"
LAURA: Well--
MATT: "Because if so, I'm all about it."
LAURA: (cackles)
TRAVIS: You seem very forthright.
To follow up on my friend's question,
what is it that you do want?
Besides to have fun.
Any particular goal?
MATT: "Not really.
"When you've lived as long as I have, you just,
"good, bad, it all blends together.
"It's about
"keeping things interesting, fluid, weird."
LAURA: If the gods think of it, your, you know,
acting like a god, can they get mad at you?
MATT: "Do I care?"
LAURA: I don't know.
MATT: "(hums) I think it depends on the god in particular.
"I'm not doing anything to bother any of them directly.
"It's not like they can do much, they're all locked away
"in their little ethereal closets on the
"other side of the Gate."
LIAM: Are they aware of you?
MATT: "I'm sure they're aware of me."
LIAM: Frumpkin the little capuchin monkey starts climbing up
his ropes and up into his hair and swinging about.
MATT: He doesn't even, he acknowledges
with his eyes, but just lets it go.
ASHLEY: Do you have a lot of followers?
LAURA: Oh yeah, how many people are going to meet up?
MATT: "Maybe about
"two, a little over 200."
LAURA: 200!
That's so many more than I thought.
I was thinking, like, not that many.
TRAVIS: Jester, that seems like a
rather small number, actually.
I thought--
MATT: "It's a very curated
circle of individuals, thank you."
TALIESIN: I've seen this face before on other people.
LAURA: What are you talking about?
TALIESIN: Oh man, you don't know what you're doing, do you?
MATT: "I like him."
LAURA: He's the one that listens to the wind.
TALIESIN: Yeah. What?
MATT: "I can smell her on you."
TALIESIN: Oh, yeah.
MATT: "She's boorish, but I like her color scheme and style,
"it's fine."
TALIESIN: Caught half of that.
MARISHA: I thought that was mushrooms.
MATT: "(sniffs) It is mushrooms, very acute."
MARISHA: Thanks?
MATT: "Anyway."
ASHLEY: Feels like
if you have this con or whatever,
that a volcano is too large of a venue.
TRAVIS: For 200 people.
ASHLEY: Fits a lot of people.
SAM: It doesn't have to take up the whole volcano,
right?
LAURA: Well, what is the--
TALIESIN: Depends on the size of the volcano.
LAURA: I mean, it's not like we're going to be, like,
in the middle of the volcano, are we?
That seems dangerous.
MARISHA: Beach party.
LIAM: And I think they are preaching
exclusivity here, is what it sounds like.
Yeah?
LAURA: Yeah, yeah.
We're the elite.
Everyone at the Traveler Con, we can make everybody
think that, you know, only they were invited.
There's a lot more Traveler followers out there.
MATT: "That is viable."
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: "The chosen few."
LAURA: Exactly.
LIAM: The goal of Traveler Con,
besides being new and exciting,
is to perhaps launch your faith to a greater reach?
LAURA: That is a good point.
MATT: "The opposite.
"It's to disengage a bit.
"Let them find each other and
"not bother me as much."
LAURA: Yeah, so the goal
is to make everybody believe that, you know,
he's too powerful to be, like, as present in their lives.
So we have to show them that he's, you know,
that's not how you're supposed to pray to him,
that he answers miracles in different ways.
MARISHA: How are you going to do that with exclusivity?
LAURA: The--
MARISHA: That feels like a clash.
LAURA: Well then, they can go out and spread the word
and let everyone know that this is how the Traveler works.
TRAVIS: You're hosting a dinner party or a mixer,
but with no guest of honor.
MARISHA: With very high profile guests.
MATT: "There's a particular word, I think,
"that deals specifically with this
"that's been very prevalent through much of mortal history.
"The word is faith
"and it means giving everything
"and expecting, and receiving, honestly,
"in the realms of religion, very little in return."
MARISHA: Well, it's a cult.
LAURA: Well--
MARISHA: That's a cult.
LAURA: No, no no, that's faith.
LIAM: It's a thin line.
MARISHA: Mm.
Wait, wait, okay, hang on, wait.
We're doing way too much planning
and there are other questions--
SAM: Yeah, there's other questions first.
MARISHA: Hang on.
SAM: You said that
you're in this for the lulz a little bit.
You just,
you just want to make fun and trickery and stuff.
What happens if my friend Jessie
says no or you grow bored of her?
You told us that you could kill us.
Is she in danger?
Does she have to follow you?
MATT: "She doesn't have to."
LIAM: You want to abandon these--
LAURA: I wouldn't abandon you,
I love you.
MATT: "I know you wouldn't."
SAM: Oh, okay. What about us, though?
If we don't say yes, are you going to kill us?
MATT: "I'm not going to kill you
unless you give me a reason to."
SAM: Well, if we say no to this Traveler--
LAURA: That's not a good reason and he knows I love you all.
LIAM: Well, I think in this instance,
we are just concerned for our friend, Jester.
The other 199 or what have you, we do not know them.
But are you with her for the long haul?
Because she has great faith in you, we have heard.
MATT: "And I would never let that faith down."
MARISHA: Insight check.
MATT: Make an insight check.
LIAM and LAURA: Check-ah.
MARISHA: Oh god, it's terrible.
Eight, no, nine.
MATT: Nine?
TRAVIS: Big mortal balls.
MARISHA: Horrible, horrible.
MATT: There is such a presence of personality
and slick, in spite of your prickly nature--
MARISHA: Fuck, he's good.
MATT: -- a likable quality to him
that you have no idea.
MARISHA: Okay, keep going, keep going.
SAM: All right, I guess I feel slightly more relieved
that you're not intending to harm any of us.
But backing up to the Traveler Con a bit,
your plan is to get 200 people together
and just trick them with--
LAURA: Well, we, okay,
here is the thing: we have to figure it out, okay?
It's a lot of pressure.
SAM: Okay,
I am not the best one to speak to this.
Caduceus, I feel, is.
But I feel like if you're going to
establish a group that's supposed to
support each other or be there for each other,
you need to give them something,
and I'm not talking about an object or money or anything,
like, something to be faithful in,
a set of guidelines, presets.
LAURA: Yeah, that's what we got to figure out, right?
SAM: Something to follow, a code, right?
LIAM: Credo or a manifesto--
LAURA: But that's what the whole
point of Traveler is to not have that, we just--
TALIESIN: You need a story.
SAM: Thank you, Caduceus.
MATT: "A story."
MARISHA: Yeah, like what do you believe in, man?
MATT: "Heh."
SAM: What do you want the world to be?
TALIESIN: When people talk about you,
what do you want them to say?
MARISHA: Yeah, what are your adjectives?
LAURA: This would actually help me a lot
because I am very bad at this.
SAM: She has been describing you to people in pamphlets,
I'm sure you've seen them, as a really cool guy--
LAURA: Have you seen the pamphlets?
MATT: "I have not seen any of these pamphlets,
"show me."
LAURA: Oh my gosh, I have to get my bag.
Here.
SAM: They say that you're--
MATT: This gargantuan body holding this tiny pamphlet.
SAM: -- a really cool guy who does really cool things.
MARISHA: And you're super powerful.
MATT: "This is ridiculous, I'm sorry."
(blows) With that, there's a swirl of greenish-blue
and he's back to a regular, though still
taller than most of you, form.
He's looking at the pamphlet.
LIAM: Frumpkin's sitting on his shoulder.
MATT: "Hm, this is quite good.
"The artistic--"
LAURA: I know.
MATT: "-- details on this.
"In the margins as well?"
LAURA: Thank you.
SAM: Yeah, but, I mean,
this pamphlet, while amazingly designed
and beautiful--
LAURA: Thank you.
SAM: I don't feel it's a, it's not something that
your followers would carry around
and be like, "Have you read this book?"
You know, it's not, it doesn't have that heft to it,
right?
MATT: "Here's the thing.
"You asked me what I want.
"That's a hard question to ask me, I've wanted many things.
"I've gained many and grown bored
"and I've forgotten some and not cared.
"What matters is what I want right now.
"And I think what I want right now
"is to successfully
"continue
"to build a religious cult--"
LAURA: (groaning)
(laughter)
MATT: "-- where only--
"-- where only you and I
"and the rest of us know the truth
"because my, what a trick that would be."
LAURA: It's pretty great.
MATT: "It's pretty great."
MARISHA: Oh no.
LIAM: They're inventing Sea Org.
TALIESIN: I am so conflicted.
SAM: Okay. I mean, first off,
maybe use club instead, club or organization.
LAURA: Religion.
MATT: "Well, outwardly, yes.
"I just thought it was a fun term already thrown out."
MARISHA: Super fun.
LIAM: I am also sensing
a theme of more of a rejection of norms and
structure--
MATT: "Yes."
LIAM: So perhaps the message is
throwing off the shackles of--
SAM: Conformity.
LIAM: Of conformity, tradition.
MATT: "Responsibility."
LIAM: Yeah, hedonistic.
MARISHA: Chaos Crew.
TRAVIS: Well.
SAM: Chaos Crew.
LAURA: Chaos Crew.
SAM: No one can see this over here.
MARISHA, SAM, and LAURA: Chaos Crew.
TRAVIS: So your objective is to have fun and not to
achieve some sort of tax-exempt status, correct?
SAM: The third one's silent? (laughs)
MATT: "I have no interest in monetary gain,
"if that's what you're inquiring about."
TRAVIS: I mean, if no one's getting (sighs) hurt.
LAURA: I bought enough fabric so all of us
can be high priests at Traveler Con.
MARISHA: Should we sidebar for a minute?
MATT: "People being tricked is fun.
"Extremely shitty people being tricked
"is so much more fun
"and there are so many shitty people
"just waiting to be tricked."
MARISHA: Yeah, you know--
LAURA: That's true--
ASHLEY: I--
LAURA: What?
TRAVIS: Yeah?
MARISHA: Go, Yasha.
ASHLEY: I think I'm just confused about
how
I feel like you've been tricking Jester.
I'm just, if that's part of your thing,
I don't know how I feel about that, you know?
MATT: "Not intentionally.
"I understand where your concern lies,
"but have you found yourself trusting
"and caring for other people and yet
"keeping things secret to yourself to keep them safe?
"To make them feel comfortable?"
TRAVIS: He's good.
ASHLEY: Yes.
I feel like that's different, but yes.
MATT: "I didn't intend for this to be what it was,
"but it was this young girl's
"joy and faith in me that brought me on this path.
"If anything, she tricked me."
LAURA: (laughs)
I mean, you gave me a lot of powers, you know?
MATT: "I like being helpful."
LAURA: He didn't lie about that.
MARISHA: So you want to--
MATT: "They're still
"scrubbing the paint from that temple, by the way."
TRAVIS: Oh yes.
LAURA: They were so mad.
MATT: "Oh, I can tell."
MARISHA: You don't want to deal with the
day-to-day struggles of being a god,
you want to retire--
MATT: "Why do you think the gods
went behind the Divine Gate?
"Because it was to preserve the things they created?
"Because of the damage of the Calamity? No!
"They got bored of having to do
"the bidding of every mortal at their feet
"and they left to take vacation forever
"and occasionally send a bit of power their way."
LIAM: Well, you know,
the lot of us certainly trust Jester completely
and
we also know a great many shitty people.
I wonder if we help create the best
Traveler Con that ever was, if maybe we could
make it a full circle and you could help us with
some of those shitty people.
MATT: "Oh, I already have been."
LIAM: We know, we have seen it.
MATT: "As long as you have her around,
you'll have me around."
LIAM: Well, we would have to put on a very good show, then.
MARISHA: Here's the thing, though.
LAURA: No theater.
MARISHA: I'm kind of, I'm kind of--
MATT: "No, absolutely not."
MARISHA: -- with Yasha.
Those things have repercussions on a grander scale.
LIAM: Which bits?
MARISHA: Sometimes, if you trick
dumb, stupid, idiotic people,
it informs the rest of their lives.
LIAM: But I am not talking about dumb, idiotic people.
I am talking about the most intelligent,
ruthless people in this world.
TALIESIN: I mean, Beau's right.
I was a big fan of practical jokes and, I mean--
TRAVIS: You were?
MATT: "You were?"
TALIESIN: Things could get out of
hand on occasion. It's been a while.
MATT: "I knew I liked him."
TALIESIN: I mean,
if things do get out of hand, it can be a problem.
I'm not going to speak more on the subject right now, but.
MATT: "Well, you just don't know how to escape."
LAURA: No, you just, you just have to bamf away.
MATT: "It's only a problem if you
remain to be there for it."
LAURA: You turn invisible, you run away, you Dimension Door.
There's so many options.
TALIESIN: I'm not really a runner.
LIAM: All I am saying--
MATT: "You don't have to run.
"It could be just an easy step.
"I could show you a few tricks."
LIAM: All I am saying is this.
And I cast Seeming and everyone is wearing green robes.
LAURA: I didn't even have to buy the stupid fabric!
TALIESIN: (snorting)
MATT: You see a big smile curl across his face.
LIAM: We have done a great many great things together.
LAURA: Make mine have more embroidery.
LIAM: It has more embroidery.
LAURA: Yes!
(laughter)
LIAM: I have no desire to harm innocent people,
but we could create something unique
in a bit of life, you know, in a hard life.
We are in control of ourselves,
we do not have to harm anyone
unless they are people who deserve to be harmed.
MARISHA: That is a super
intense responsibility
and kind of requires a certain amount of ego to say that.
LIAM: Hello, my name is Caleb Widogast.
MARISHA: Nice to meet you, Caleb.
TALIESIN: I don't know if I can subscribe to that, but
I owe Jester a great deal
and
it would be
unconscionable not to help you
with whatever path you're moving towards, either
for the delight of crowds or
to keep anything from getting out of hand.
SAM: I agree that,
I mean, I'm just here for Jester as well
and if these people are going to
come to the volcano and expect something,
I suppose it would be more fulfilling for them
to get some sort of a show than to leave
disappointed and empty.
LAURA: Yeah.
SAM: But I still would like to, I'd prefer it if
they were set up with some sort of
path to success or happiness rather than just being
tricked for trickery's sake.
LAURA: Right. We want them to be happy, it--
it feels good to believe.
SAM: Your belief in the Traveler
has helped you a great deal,
not just because he's bestowed upon you powers,
but also, he's given you friendship.
LAURA: Yeah.
SAM: And it would be nice
to give the other people at your con that same potential.
MATT: He walks forward towards you, Jester, seeing the hints
of
doubt and
small, cold trickle of sorrow
of the reality that you've been
wrestling with since the evening.
He just reaches out and touches your chin and goes,
"Words are just words.
"I'm what I've always been and what you've made me.
"This has not changed."
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: "If anything, I trusted you with this
"because of what we have.
"I'm sorry if you're disappointed."
LAURA: No, I'm not.
I guess I was just, you know,
I really did think you were always around
and now, I feel like
maybe that's asking a lot of you.
MATT: "(sighs) I think, if we pull this off,
"and if we do it right, we could leave
"199 or so individuals
"still content, with new friends,
"some defined direction, perhaps,
"in the way they go through their day-to-day
"as they slowly walk towards the days of dust,
"and I'll have more time to be around you."
LAURA: I like it.
MATT: "All right, then."
TRAVIS: If Jester has faith the Traveler,
that's good enough for me, I suppose.
MARISHA: I agree.
I think, to Caduceus' point,
you're the story.
LAURA: Huh?
TALIESIN: You're not wrong.
MARISHA: The Traveler needs a story.
You're the story.
LIAM: Yeah,
you are the poster child.
MARISHA: He helped you first.
He changed your life.
LAURA: Yeah.
MARISHA: You're his story.
Or, more like--
LAURA: I'll be the keynote speaker.
TALIESIN: (snorting)
MARISHA: I think it's more than that, but yeah.
Keynote speaker.
SAM: What is the story that you'll tell as the,
I mean, are you going to do a demonstration of
the gifts he's given you?
LAURA: Ooh!
That could be pretty cool.
MATT: Not bad.
SAM: We could--
LAURA: You could make me seem even more powerful than I am.
Like, Caleb, you could do some really cool stuff, right?
SAM: Or what if you walked into there
just in tattered clothing
because you're just a peasant girl with nothing,
you're even feeble, your hands don't work
or something like that?
LAURA: Yeah.
Ooh, I could have no hands!
SAM: No hands.
Then, because of the Traveler, you can paint amazingly
or something.
MATT: "Are you saying
"an organized religious event would fake
"an individual's rise from a low place
"to a high one for the purpose of
"convincing the masses that there is a miracle?
"Such a thing's never been done."
SAM: Did I just invent that?
MARISHA and LIAM: Canon.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: I don't think that's what you want.
MARISHA: I agree.
LAURA: Why?
TALIESIN: You want--
MARISHA: Your story's
awesome already, don't,
you can be a cleric of a trickery god,
but don't fool them in faith.
Tell them the truth.
TALIESIN: You don't want liars.
LAURA: Then you fuck them a little bit
because, I mean, that's just, you got to.
MARISHA: Yeah, you can after,
yeah--
TALIESIN: No, you want,
you want storytellers, you want,
you want showmanship,
you want people who will
(sighs)
create,
create events, create art,
create things that people will see that will confound them.
MATT: "To take this story
and then begin to share their own."
TALIESIN: And you want to show them the truth.
MATT: "Well."
TALIESIN: A certain truth.
LAURA: They go back to their hometown
and they set up a temple and they get followers there
and then those followers get followers
and then those followers get followers.
That's how you build a religion.
TALIESIN: They have a word for people who do that already.
They're called jesters.
LAURA: What?
TALIESIN: The trickster who shows the truth.
I mean, how did you end up with
that name in the first place?
LAURA: Well,
I thought it sounded cool.
I thought jesters were people that made people laugh.
MARISHA: Yeah.
SAM: You thought that,
you chose your name?
LAURA: Well, yeah.
TRAVIS: Your mother did not name you?
LAURA: Well, she did, but she told me
I get to choose my own name.
SAM: What was your name used to be?
TALIESIN: I don't think tieflings--
do tieflings, there's a thing for--
SAM: Did you have a name before this?
LIAM: What did your mother call you before Jester?
SAM: What was your mother's name?
(laughter)
LIAM and TALIESIN: For you.
SAM: For you.
(laughter)
LAURA: Genevieve.
SAM: Genevieve?
MARISHA: (laughs) Genevieve? (laughs)
SAM: I mean.
TALIESIN: Perfectly reasonable.
SAM: Genny?
MARISHA: Sorry.
TRAVIS: I think that's lovely.
TALIESIN: I do too.
LAURA: I like Jester, okay? Jester, jeez.
MATT: "It's a much better name."
MARISHA: Can I call you Genny?
LAURA: No, you can call me Jester.
SAM: Genevieve Lavore?
TALIESIN: I think the point is that
you should be what people aspire to.
We shouldn't have to trick people about you, you should be
elevated, you should be the success.
You are everything a disciple of the Traveler should be.
No sense to lie about that.
LIAM: I think you just show who you are on a grand scale,
which is pretty grand already.
LAURA: Sheesh, you guys.
I feel pretty great right now. (sighs)
TRAVIS: You could still add to your story, though.
Maybe an evil wizard tried to kill you
when you were a baby and the curse rebounded
and left a scar on your forehead and--
no? Okay.
Scratch this.
MATT: "No one will buy into that."
TALIESIN: That's ridiculous.
SAM: Maybe we tell
Jester's true story, but it sounds like
you'll still need something fabricated
to make you disappear or fly away or whatever.
MATT: "We have an idea already.
"We've got a few weeks to workshop it, don't worry."
LAURA: Yeah. We've to figure this out, man.
SAM: Okay.
TRAVIS: But while you're here
and you seem to have quite the range of vision,
is there anything we should ask about
the Stones and your particular journey, Caduceus?
LAURA: (giggles) They think you're
going to answer things for them.
TALIESIN: Well, I wouldn't mind
a finger pointed in the right direction
as we are about to begin our hike.
But as for information, I--
MATT: "I will tell you--"
TALIESIN: Wouldn't be so foolish as to ask you.
MATT: "Tall pink furry man,
(chuckling)
"he who bows to the winds,
"your answer lies
"there."
He points in the direction of
the jungle you were traveling already.
(laughter)
LIAM: Oh, behind me.
TALIESIN: For all that you have done before, I thank you.
MATT: "(chuckles)
"Nevertheless, sorry to intrude upon your breakfast."
TRAVIS: We get visited by non-gods all the time.
(chuckling)
LIAM: Where do you go when you are not here?
MATT: "All over."
LIAM: Where are you going next?
MATT: "I think I'm going to visit an old friend."
LAURA: Who? Who?
MATT: "That's a story for another time.
"But wherever I'm going, it's definitely ashy.
"I'll only stay for a bit, it's bad on the skin.
"Anyway, travel safe, friends."
He steps back into the doorway where he
originally emerged as the tree begins to--
SAM: Who's on the Tal'Dorei Council?
MATT: You hear a distant scream as another falls dead.
(laughter)
LAURA: Oh no!
He said every time we ask, somebody on the Council dies.
SAM: Oh no.
LAURA: Don't do that!
LIAM: Think we can go backwards so--
MATT: There goes Vex'ahlia's epilogue.
SAM: Oh no.
MATT: No.
SAM: Vex'ahlia is dead.
TALIESIN: With proper training, you can learn to do that.
MATT: All the vines pull back a bit,
but they don't entirely vanish.
Instead, they form this beautiful vision of the doorway
with all these beautiful flowers around it,
this intricately carved-looking art piece
where the door once was on the outside of this tree.
It seems so out of place amongst the chaotic jungle.
And there in the center is a beautiful glass relief
in the shape of a carved dick.
LAURA: Yes. (claps)
(laughter)
LAURA: I run up and I grab one
of the flowers and I give it to Yasha.
LIAM: Did it spit out my monkey before it solidified?
MATT: Yes, it did. (laughs)
TRAVIS: "Spit out my monkey."
SAM: Jester!
TALIESIN: Well, that was nice.
SAM: Are you okay?
LAURA: Yes?
LAURA: It's going to take a little bit of time,
I am not going to lie about that.
I feel a little
confused.
SAM: Of course. He was lying to you your whole life.
LAURA: Well, he didn't, though.
He never was like, "Jester, I'm a god."
I was like, "Oh my god, you're so powerful,
"you must be a god."
I said it to him.
SAM: He didn't correct you. That's the same as lying.
LAURA: Well, no.
That's not the same as lying, that's just not saying--
MARISHA: Well, we call it lying by omission.
LIAM: At the same time, he has helped you
complete many miracles, we have seen it.
LAURA: Yeah, I mean--
TALIESIN: I will admit,
I don't get the appeal.
LAURA: I mean,
I've never seen anyone that wasn't in the service to a god
be able to do things that I've done.
MARISHA: Which is why I hope you have
a sense of validation right now.
There has been this part of me, for a long time,
that I was 100% convinced, I talked about it
with Fjord at one point. I think I did,
or maybe I imagined it--
LIAM: You're losing the thread.
MARISHA: That
you created
the Traveler.
He was a figment of your imagination
that you just birthed and then went off
and then it's all just you.
LAURA: Whoa, you think I could do that?
MARISHA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: You kind of did.
MARISHA: Because you kind of did.
TALIESIN: That's true.
MARISHA: I feel kind of validated as well,
so I hope you feel even more validated.
LAURA: He was super powerful the first time I saw him.
I mean, like--
LIAM: I don't know how we would
verify that, either, that--
LAURA: Well, I mean--
MARISHA: You're super powerful.
LAURA: He was a little kid
when I first saw him and then he wasn't.
And then he was and then he wasn't.
That was pretty powerful stuff.
TALIESIN: I've done that once.
So I consider that to be very impressive.
TRAVIS: You've done what once?
TALIESIN: I was a little kid and then I wasn't.
(laughter)
ASHLEY: Oh my god.
TALIESIN: Anyone can do that.
ASHLEY: So he, but he wasn't a real little kid
when he met you, that's how he befriended you.
TRAVIS: He made himself appear that way.
LAURA: Yeah. Well, yeah.
MARISHA: He told you what you needed to hear.
LAURA: Don't most gods?
SAM: It sounds like you also told him
what he needed to hear.
TRAVIS: No.
LAURA: Well.
SAM: I mean, he clearly needs you, too.
He's asking for your help at Traveler Con--
LAURA: Sure.
SAM: But more than that, over the past-- how old are you?
14, 15?
I have no concept of--
LAURA: 14 or 15?
SAM: Well, I mean, that's how you act, I don't know.
LAURA: Oh, do I really?
SAM: No, you're just so cute.
But for all that time, he's been
coming back to you for a reason.
He needs you, he needs your validation,
he needs your support--
LAURA: It's not that he
just needs my validation and he needs my support.
He likes me, we're friends.
SAM: I know, but that's pretty impressive.
TRAVIS: Jester can I you an important question?
He's never asked you to harm anyone, right?
All these tricks, they're not at
the physical expense of anyone, everyone's going to be
safe and have a laugh afterwards, right?
It's not ever going to end in
someone being hurt?
LAURA: Well, I mean,
he definitely gives me the ability to hurt people.
I mean, you guys have seen that.
LIAM: Yeah, but only in defense of yourself and us,
not for giggles and shits.
MARISHA: Fjord's got a point.
LAURA: I mean, that's not what he's after, you know?
You heard him say,
it's boring to him.
Just going out and killing someone, what's the point, right?
LIAM: He's looking for fun, he's not looking
to strangle anyone or something like that.
LAURA: Exactly.
MATT: Been there, done that.
TALIESIN: I can't tell if you walked up
to that or not, I really can't.
TRAVIS: I mean, a cult is all well and good.
I admit, I don't know a ton about them, but I do feel like,
you know, the story on cults is that, I don't know,
people normally die or worse.
LAURA: I mean, the only, the only,
(sighs) the only experience I have with cults outside of,
apparently, my own is, is--
MARISHA: The Angel of Irons.
LAURA: Yeah, and they were real bad.
TRAVIS: Yeah, they're not great.
LAURA: But I don't think that means that we have to be.
Are we a cult?
Oh man.
TRAVIS: He literally said you were a cult.
LAURA: I know what he said, Fjord!
MARISHA: But I think this,
I think Traveler Con
could be the deciding factor, it could be the turning point.
TRAVIS: Of what?
MARISHA: Of making it a cult versus a religion.
TRAVIS: No, it's a cult.
MARISHA: It's a cult.
TALIESIN: It's--
SAM: But we could make it a positive cult.
We could make it--
LIAM: Yes, this is the thing--
SAM: We could look at this as a,
not a problem, but a,
a cult-otunity, like an opportunity, to make a--
LAURA: Cult-ortunity.
TALIESIN: Cult-ortunity?
SAM: To be good, to make these people have good lives
and, or at least, I don't know, it's a cult.
LIAM: I agree, well, the semantics, cult, religion,
what is very obvious is that he trusts in you, as do we,
and if he is looking to you for guidance,
if you are his number one, perhaps you have
the ability to decide what this is
in the world.
LAURA: I mean, yeah,
that's the thing, I think I do.
MARISHA: You do.
LAURA: I mean,
we got to figure this out, I mean, like (sighs)--
TRAVIS: Jester, how do you feel about all this?
You thought he was a god before.
He's not, it doesn't sound like he's even close.
How do you feel about being able to
decide what he will become?
LAURA: Well,
I don't think he wants to be a god-god.
I think,
I don't know, I feel like it's a lot of pressure.
I feel a little overwhelmed, I'm not going to lie.
ASHLEY: But what does he really want, then?
If he doesn't want to be a god?
LAURA: I think he wants the power,
he enjoys the people, you know, worshiping him.
He likes the compliments.
TALIESIN: I did get a sense of ego.
LAURA: I mean, it's understandable.
He's really powerful, he's super cool,
and he's very handsome now that I've actually seen his face,
it is as handsome as I
thought it was going to be--
TRAVIS: The hair's a bit much, but sure.
LAURA: I've never seen eyebrows quite that large.
I wonder how he gets them like that.
MARISHA: He should obviously tweeze a little.
LAURA: No! No, no.
MARISHA: I mean, I'm just saying.
TALIESIN: Tweeze?
LIAM: End of the day,
it is an awful lot to process for you and for us.
Perhaps maybe we, I mean, I feel like
we're all picking at you quite a bit.
Maybe you need just some time to mull it over.
SAM: I'm going to be doing some meditation soon.
Maybe you could join me.
LAURA: We can both meditate.
SAM: Yeah.
MARISHA: I'll lead you
in another guided meditation.
Everyone fell asleep in the last one.
LAURA: I didn't fall asleep.
TALEISIN: Wow, I fell asleep.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
Okay.
Regardless, we're here for you and we trust you.
SAM: Yeah, if you want to put on a great show
for these people, we'll help you do it.
LAURA: Because it would be helping them, right?
I mean, how much of a bummer would it be
if they all got out to Traveler Con
and then it was like, "Just kidding"?
MARISHA: Cheese sandwiches--
LAURA: With, like, a mattress on the ground or something.
MARISHA: That would be fucked up.
LAURA: That would suck.
LIAM: But you are more creative than that.
You just need some time to let this sink in.
LAURA: Yeah.
MARISHA: Hey.
Just give Jester a hug.
LAURA: Oh, Beau.
Thanks, Beau.
SAM: I'll join the hug.
LAURA: Oh, thanks Nott.
SAM: Chaos hug.
LAURA: Chaos hug.
MARISHA: Yasha.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: All right, well.
We were here for a reason.
Should we?
SAM: Oh, yeah.
TRAVIS: Should we continue on?
LAURA: Sorry, Caduceus.
I didn't mean to--
TALIESIN: Oh, no.
This is--
LAURA: -- hijack.
TALIESIN: There's no hijacking,
this is all part of the journey.
This is good.
LAURA: This
doorway is really beautiful, though, isn't it?
TALIESIN: It's very impressive.
ASHLEY: It is very beautiful
TRAVIS: It's a big dick.
LAURA: It's a little dick in glass.
ASHLEY: Does that look like a big dick to you?
(laughter)
MARISHA: Wait, what do you see?
TALIESIN: Oh, yeah.
TRAVIS: Comparably, yes.
(laughter)
Huge dick.
Someone can walk through that dick.
Yes, it's--
LAURA: Well,
it's just a little dick on the door.
The whole door isn't shaped like a dick.
TRAVIS: Oh, I thought it was the whole door.
TALEISIN: I thought it grew, I thought it was a--
LAURA: No, it's a door and there's a little glass relief--
TRAVIS: It's a big glass schlong.
(laughter)
LAURA: I've just going to leave one of my Traveler shrines.
MATT: Okay.
You go ahead and set that at the base
of the beautiful wooden door frame.
You gather your things.
Are you guys heading deeper into the jungle
in the direction that you were previously traveling?
TALIESIN: Just imagine the grove from
Nightmare Before Christmas going down.
"What?"
(laughter)
MATT: "Where did?"--
TRAVIS: Pumpkins, clover,
mushroom tip.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: ♪ What's this? ♪
MATT, TRAVIS, LIAM, and TALIESIN: ♪ What's this? ♪
(laughter)
LIAM: ♪ There's penis everywhere. ♪
MATT: (imitated slapping)
LIAM: I'm going right in, bing, oh.
MATT: Oh.
Anyway.
First off, who is, what's the marching order here
as you continue into the jungle?
TALIESIN: I'll take the front.
LIAM: In green robes, still.
You've got seven and a half more hours of it.
LAURA: Sweet.
LIAM: Camouflage.
MATT: Fjord behind Caduceus.
TALIESIN: I might get some customization if you're
going on that.
MATT: And behind Fjord?
TALIESIN: I would like a big mossy green like
whatever would be the swamp Keyleth special.
LIAM: Okay so the shoulders topped with grizzle.
MATT: There's enough space
through a lot of this jungle to travel in pairs of two,
so it doesn't have to be single file right now, so.
Does that mean you want to put Fjord up front with Caduceus?
TALIESIN: Sure.
MATT: And then Beauregard's in the back.
Who's with Beau?
LIAM: I will go with Beau.
MATT: All right and then it would probably be--
MARISHA: Empire kids.
LAURA: Where's Nott?
MATT: Nott, where do you want to be?
SAM: I'll be next to Yasha.
LAURA: Okay, I'll go in the back.
SAM: Just looking at my flask.
MATT: (laughs) Fair enough.
Okay.
LIAM: Right at eye level.
SAM: Yeah, jangling in front of me.
MATT: Continuing on,
the gentle, occasionally fading in and out, scents of
distant sea ocean air
meets with the earthy smell of ferns and plants and the
general jungle scents that fill the space,
occasionally catching scents of rotting citrus
as well as other elements of decay
that normally come across carcasses
and other creatures that have been hunted
or died, seemingly naturally, within the jungle.
(birds calling)
Caduceus, make a perception check.
Actually, you and Fjord both make perception checks, please.
TALIESIN: Natural 20.
TRAVIS: Seven.
TALIESIN: 29.
MATT: All righty.
TALIESIN: I'm just letting Decompose
go everywhere, by the way.
I'm just leaving a trail.
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: I'm in a mood.
MATT: Interesting note, okay.
LIAM: Insult my god, will ya?
TALIESIN: Oh no, I'm fine.
MATT: (chuckles) Continuing forward, you catch,
pretty early into the first hour or so of your travel,
small patches of dark blue and purple fungus
that's set in some of the trees
where an oddly-colored mushroom grows out of
a strange material that appears strung to or attached to
elements of tree trunks and nearby rocks,
just little patches of strange fungus.
TALIESIN: You seem odd. Are you odd?
LAURA: Hmm?
TALIESIN: Oh, I'm talking to this guy over here.
LIAM: Fjord?
TRAVIS: Yes?
LIAM: Oh.
SAM: (wheezing laughter)
TALIESIN: Huh.
MATT: Make a nature check, if you'd like.
TALIESIN: That's not useful, but here we go.
If I'm going to nature check, I'm going to give myself a d4.
I suck at nature checks.
Ooh, that's better.
I rolled a 14, so 13.
MATT: 13.
No idea what this fungus is, unfortunately.
It's different and you're uncertain if
it's naturalness-based because its coloration
and its placement is very splotchy
and definitely contrasts with the general themes
and coloration of the jungle around you.
TALIESIN: Going to tap it with
the tip of my-- I'm going to back up a bit
and just tap a bit with the tip of my crystal staff.
MATT: Okay. (tapping)
It shifts slightly, doesn't seem to react from the impact.
LIAM: Does it resemble any kind of component or ingredient
that I ever worked with at the Academy?
MATT: Make an arcana check.
LIAM: Oh jeez.
Trenta, 14, 24.
MATT: 24.
No, actually.
But not only that you don't recognize it,
you're fairly certain in all of your research,
this is something that has not--
you've not come across in your time at school,
which lets you know that this isn't
something that you've used previously
or learned about as a material component.
LIAM: I pull out a small knife and just give it a little--
LAURA: (screeching)
LIAM: Anything happen?
MATT: Kind of cuts off a little bit.
What you do catch as you're cutting through
is the fungus is pretty thick,
but as you cut it away, behind it is
a waxy-like substance, a beeswax-type material
that is coated over the section of the tree
where the fungus is growing from.
LIAM: I will take that fungus and I will wrap it in some cloth
and put it away.
MATT: Okay.
LIAM: I will pull up some flame in my hand
with a cantrip and just hold it close to
the wax.
MATT: Okay.
It slowly begins to melt.
You watch it just drip down in these little beads.
As it begins to rapidly burn away,
due to your pressure and the heat,
it begins to give way to bones.
SAM: Ooh.
TALIESIN: We're on the right track.
TRAVIS: We're on the right track?
TALIESIN: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Because the trees are made of bones?
I feel like you're not sharing enough information.
LIAM: Do you mean the tree has bones
or there are little bones shoved in there?
MATT: No, the tree isn't bones
but the wax substance that is there
that the fungus is growing out of,
it looks like it's trapping in something that had bones.
LIAM: Oh.
LAURA: Little bones or big bones?
LIAM: Yeah, little tiny ones?
MATT: From the one,
from what you're looking at right now, small bones.
Make a nature check.
ASHLEY: Wait, so the fungus is growing--
MATT: Sorry, medicine, medicine check for you.
LIAM: Medicine?
MATT: Yes.
LIAM: 18.
MATT: 18, okay.
SAM: Dem bones.
MATT: There is damage to the bones, they are scarred,
pockmarked across the surface,
and you gather the damage to be acidic in nature.
SAM: Acidic damage killed a thing and then they--
LAURA: Something's going to do acid damage around here,
something's going to do acid damage around here.
MARISHA: Anyone got stuff?
LAURA: I start looking around
at plants that look like they could shoot out acid.
LIAM: So some sort of living thing
is either collecting creatures and sealing them in
after they have disposed of them or--
SAM: Like a spider or--
TALIESIN: We're going to be
coming into contact with some very unusual creatures.
MARISHA: Like man-eating plants?
TALIESIN: Things that you've never seen before.
TRAVIS: Things that you've never seen before.
TALIESIN: Things that nobody's ever seen before.
TRAVIS: Fair enough, that's worse.
SAM: ROUSs?
TALIESIN: Any stories in your family?
TALIESIN: Just the one.
LIAM: Hm.
TALIESIN: (sighs)
"From my altar, you will feed these limbs to the beasts
"that wander there so that they may hold my mark.
"Upon this site, you shall build a menagerie
"whose beasts shall be my gift to the Changebringer
"to remind her that nature is infinite."
We're going to see some interesting things,
many of them possibly dangerous.
LAURA: Do we need to write stuff like that
down for the Traveler, too?
I mean, some really cool--
MARISHA: It's honestly a good idea.
It's really good propaganda.
SAM: That's good material.
MARISHA: Yeah, it's not bad.
ASHLEY: Yeah, that was great.
LAURA: Will you help me? Did you write that stuff?
TALIESIN: Of course not. These are
the same stories that have
been told in my family for generations.
LAURA: See? We really need.
MARISHA: The more highfalutin you are--
LAURA: Should we just say that
we've had those for generations
and share them with the rest of the people?
SAM: But we need to get them first.
MARISHA: Wait, wait, wait.
God, why do we keep doing--
TALIESIN: I'm keeping an eye out
for whatever it is we attracted--
MATT: Okay, no worries.
LIAM: As the group gets louder.
(laughter)
MATT: Continuing on from this point,
you don't see them often.
Like every five or so minutes,
you'll see a few patches in an area.
You do come, they look to be relatively small
and even the bones that you pulled from that,
they look to be probably of a larger rodent,
a vole or some sort of a burrowing-type rodent creature.
You do, about another hour or so into travel,
once again, you're beginning to sweat beneath your armor,
it's uncomfortable, but you're still keeping vigilant,
just even in your passive perception, you pick out,
now that you know what to look for, one larger patch.
It looks like a four foot by three foot patch
that is actually bulbous
on the side of a tree that sits where some rocks
are pressed into its base roots off to the side.
The fungus is larger.
It's the same type of fungus, but it's growing,
and whereas previously it was small, little stalks,
some of them are three inches in diameter
and the actual ends, the caps, are about that big.
TALIESIN: I'm keeping a Resistance buff up as I walk.
ASHLEY: I recognize these things.
I'm just kidding.
SAM: Wait, what?
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Did we meet at Coachella?
No--
MATT: Actually, make a nature check.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MARISHA: Do I know you from Instagram?
TALIESIN: Great feed.
ASHLEY: 10.
MATT: 10.
Sadly, you do not recognize these.
TRAVIS: Press on?
SAM: Off we go, I guess.
TALIESIN: Press on quietly, keep an eye out.
MATT: Caduceus, Fjord, both make
perception checks once more for me.
TRAVIS: Fuck you.
TALIESIN: Oh, fuck you.
LAURA: Oh no.
TRAVIS: Six.
TALIESIN: 16.
MATT: 16?
TALIESIN: For me, that's terrible.
MATT: Okay, what you do see, as you continue onward
about two more hours, one, there are
a number of living creatures in this jungle
that you see the shifting through the boughs
that you see fleeing as you approach,
this heavy footfalls as you crunch through
the undergrowth sending them scattering a bit.
You're not being quiet.
You're not clomping through to make noise,
but you're not carefully, steadily going through,
unless you want to begin to do so.
But you can see the woodland creatures
and the various denizens scatter as they go.
You begin to notice, beyond just these occasional patches,
you begin to see
strange piles of freshly turned earth,
bright red, vibrant earth, impressive in size.
Maybe four or five feet from end to end and about
two and a half feet tall.
MARISHA: Like an ant hill?
MATT: Like an ant hill type of a thing.
You just come upon one, just over cresting an area,
you see it about 30, 35 feet ahead of you.
TALIESIN: Going to keep an eye on the ground.
Is it shifting?
MATT: It is not shifting.
TRAVIS: What about the canopy of branches above us?
MATT: You look up there, you see another patch of
that waxy element that's stopped
and there you can see part of it is melted away over time
and you can see elements of a long,
baboon-like skeletal arm that is
mostly dissolved and decayed that's hanging out of it.
But the same the fungus growing beyond it
and it's slowly eroding.
TRAVIS: Just in case,
I'll activate Divine Sense.
Within 60 feet, any celestial, fiend,
or undead presence.
MATT: Okay.
You don't sense anything.
LIAM: I ask, in my mind,
Frumpkin to go scurrying up a tree
and plant a hand on her shoulder
and bamf into Frumpkin and we'll go along for the ride
to try to get close to this hill, this pile of dirt.
If there is any vines or anything hanging down close to it,
I will let him scurry down that.
If not, I'll let him chance his way on the ground
to get a closer look.
MATT: Okay.
There's no vines directly above it.
Well, there are a handful that are fallen
but none that would lead directly to it.
Frumpkin would have to leap down
or probably step up towards it.
LIAM: Okay, well, that's what we will do.
Frumpkin, at a tree closest to it, goes down to it
and begins to slowly creep up
and I tell him to look over and inside.
MATT: Perception check on Frumpkin.
MARISHA: Hm.
LIAM: Never good.
It is 12.
MATT: Okay.
Looking at the pile, it does not appear to be moving,
there does not appear to be any sort of,
you know, cavernous anthill-like entrances or tunnels.
It looks very clean.
LIAM: I tell him to pick up
just a random stone, if he can find one,
and toss it in.
MATT: (monkey ooh) (blows) Throws it.
(stone bouncing) No reaction.
LIAM: I tell him to run into it and go around
in a little circle and then scurry out.
MATT: Mmkay. (speedy running)
Runs back, nothing.
LIAM: I summon him back.
MATT: Mm-hmm.
LIAM: I just had a look.
I thought that it maybe would swallow him up, but
nothing like that happened.
SAM: Good, right?
TALIESIN: I don't think that's their purpose.
LAURA: What do you think that purpose is?
TALIESIN: I think their purpose is to (sighs)
either eat or digest what's already dead.
TRAVIS: Those mounds in front of us, they're earth, right?
They're not like huge piles of shit?
MATT: It looks like freshly tilled earth,
though it's like bits of bright red soil,
which is very much contrasting against the jungle floor.
But the jungle floor is mostly
under brush and decaying vegetation.
You haven't probably seen
raw, exposed dirt and if you had, it may have had
a reddish tint, but it's been a dirty red.
This is very fresh, bright, vibrant, clean red.
MARISHA: Can I just crouch down and just
dig a little pit next to me and see if
it's red underneath?
MATT: Sure.
Make a nature check.
MARISHA: Eh.
(chuckles) Natural one.
MATT: Okay.
TALIESIN: Forget how to dig.
MARISHA: (groaning)
(laughter)
LAURA: Shove your face in it.
MATT: Yeah. (laughs)
SAM: Why are you eating dirt?
MATT: You scoop through and it's loose,
it isn't packed tightly,
and it just crumbles in your hands.
It's fresh earth.
MARISHA: Whoa.
LAURA: How big are the piles?
MATT: It was about
five feet from end to end, about two and a half feet tall
total, so it's pretty--
LAURA: Can I, can I?
Use your staff, I don't want to stick my finger in it.
Put your staff in the middle and see if it--
TALIESIN: Why would I do that?
LAURA: What if there's something in there?
TALIESIN: No, I don't want to poke it.
I would just leave it alone.
LAURA: Yasha, use your sword.
TALIESIN: Yeah, I wouldn't do that.
TRAVIS: I have one responsibility on this team.
I'll summon my sword and I'll poke the hill.
MATT: Okay. (poking)
TRAVIS: No fucking fire ants come pouring out of that shit?
MATT: Nope, not at all.
SAM: Baby spiders.
ASHLEY: Can I pick some of it up and kind of
mush-el it?
MATT: Yeah.
ASHLEY: What if it's like a, add some water
and it's clay or something?
Don't you have something to do with clay?
TALIESIN: Not here.
LAURA: Oh yeah.
MATT: It crumbles, it's very clean earth.
SAM: Don't you pour my booze onto that.
TRAVIS: It's like four or five feet high, like a--
MATT: Just about two and a half feet high.
LAURA: Have we looked up to see what,
has it dropped from anywhere?
No?
TRAVIS: There's a
baboon-like carcass covered in wax up there--
ASHLEY: How many of them are there again?
MATT: You only see one right now.
MARISHA: Just one?
MATT: Yeah.
SAM: I wonder if it's old poop from
a big elephant or something--
LAURA: Wait, wait, wait.
TRAVIS: Let's keep going.
LAURA: I'm going to dig around the,
I'm going to go look at the dirt not in the pile,
I'm going to get rid of some of the leaves and foliage
on the ground and see what color the ground is.
MATT: Okay, you dig through.
The earth beneath is a similar reddish color,
but it's all very suffused with
dead vegetation and grayish decaying matter and
roots that are thick and thin,
a network of plant capillaries that
are just heavily sifted through.
It looks like the same earth, but
the earth you see in this pile is clean.
LAURA: What?
SAM: Clean dirt?
That's crazy.
LAURA: Why would there be
clean dirt here?
MARISHA: It's got to be be ants
or something, right?
SAM: Yeah.
LAURA: Oh, giant ants.
TRAVIS: I'll also cast
See Invisibility with the sword out.
MATT: Okay.
TRAVIS: Just for the next hour.
MATT: You got it.
TRAVIS: Just in case
because jungles are creepy as fuck.
MATT: Mmkay.
MARISHA: Let's just go around it.
SAM: Yeah, of course.
MARISHA: And I'll be on the lookout
for others.
MATT: Okay.
All right, so you guys continue to move forward--
LAURA: I swish my tail and try to bat
some of it away as we walk past it.
MATT: (tail swish) Scatters easily, as--
LAURA: That's weird.
MATT: Loose dirt is wont to do.
Continuing on,
about another 15 or 20 or so minutes,
you immediately see another mound,
similar coloration, of clean dirt situated
and about 30 feet beyond that,
you see a very large mass of this same waxy substance.
Probably about 12 foot high
and maybe 13 foot end to end
that is held between two trees,
it's blocking one pathway.
It is covered in fungus, heavy, large fungus.
Elements of it have spread onto the side
to the tree.
SAM: Like a web?
MARISHA: Or like a hive?
MATT: Like a giant cocoon.
LAURA: Oh.
MARISHA: It's, oh, oh.
I look around and then, like--
TRAVIS: Anything with See Invisibility or Divine Sense?
MATT: Nothing with See Invisibility,
nothing with Divine Sense.
MARISHA: Wasps, flying creatures, flying things, flying--
MATT: Make a perception check.
(groaning)
TRAVIS: Dirt pile is the new chair.
MARISHA: Why am I rolling like ball sacks tonight?
Nine.
TALIESIN and TRAVIS: How do ball sacks roll?
SAM: Not very well.
MARISHA: Garbage, clearly.
They have no grip.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: I mean, they actually do have--
MARISHA: I don't know.
TALIESIN: It's true.
MARISHA: I don't have one. (laughs)
MATT: Depends on how well it's kept.
MARISHA: I can do kegels.
(laughter)
It's not bad, it's not bad grip.
Just saying.
TRAVIS: Shit's devolving.
MATT: Anyway.
MARISHA: What is it?
MATT: You don't see anything wasp-like,
you don't see any nests or hives or anything
in the vicinity, just the standard continuing of,
but the fungus, the fungus is
growing more dense in some places.
You can see smaller patches of this wax
and that one large cocoon-type wax structure
that you can see between the two trees.
TRAVIS: Somebody light that thing up.
LAURA: Ooh, maybe just like a little bit of fire
to see how the wax is when it melts?
TALIESIN: That seems--
LIAM: Well,
I could go more precise, but I would have to
get right up to it or I could throw a little bit
from a distance.
TRAVIS: ♪ From a distance. ♪
LAURA: Well, maybe don't do the middle of it or anything.
Just, like, look for a little
open patch of wax and see what it does.
You know.
SAM: We're just going to burn a bees nest?
A cocoon of some sort?
TALIESIN: Seems like a foolish thing to do.
Is Decompose touch or is there some distance to it?
LAURA: It's touch.
MATT: If you want to
look it up real fast, yeah.
TALIESIN: That's actually a fair point.
I'm going to look it up--
SAM: Roll, testicle.
LAURA: Roll.
TALIESIN: Stop it.
(singing)
MATT: Goddammit, you guys.
TALIESIN: It is touch, never mind.
LIAM: Scrote, scrote--
TALIESIN: Um.
(laughter)
Yeah.
There's no movement coming from any of this,
there's no shifting?
MATT: Not that you can tell, no.
MATT: (lip popping)
LAURA: The dirt pile,
what if there's, like, are there any holes in the ground
that we can see where, like, the dirt would've come from,
like it's been displaced?
MATT: Around it? Not necessarily.
LAURA: What if I go over and I move the dirt out of the way?
Is there a hole in the ground?
MATT: Jester walks up to the mound and starts shifting
large amounts of the dirt out of the way.
It does continue below.
The soft, clean earth
goes a bit deeper beneath just the surface of the jungle.
SAM: Like you.
MATT: Aww.
ASHLEY: I'm going to go over and help her just--
MATT: You push back quite a bit.
It takes you a little while to do so,
probably about 20 or so minutes to
fully remove it from the top because it's--
TALIESIN: Is it all just red
or is there any other color?
MATT: It's all red and it's all clean.
It is lacking in any sort of the other bits of
vegetation and organic matter that you see
suffuse the dirt around it in the ground.
LAURA: What does it smell like?
Does it smell like regular old dirt?
MATT: It does, it does.
TALIESIN: When I touch it
and if I put my hand into it and I cast Decompose,
does anything, do I feel any--
MATT: Nothing.
It is pure, clean, red earth.
LIAM: I wonder if we're dealing with some sort of oversized
earthworm or the like, chewing its way through and cleaning
what it leaves behind.
TALIESIN: I don't, hm.
Maybe not.
LIAM: Did you see if it goes down a bit?
Have you dug in a ways?
ASHLEY: Yeah, I got pretty far.
I wonder would happen if you got in it.
LAURA: That far down?
MATT: Far down?
You get down about three feet and it's still going.
LAURA: Whoa.
LIAM: We cannot make out what is in this giant gob
of wax you have described here?
MATT: Not at this instance, no.
LIAM: No.
TRAVIS: If only we had, like, a capuchin monkey
that would dig down into this hole and--
SAM: Want me to go look at this thing?
LIAM: Or we could completely go around it.
TRAVIS: Look at the big waxy cocoon.
No one's going to poke the thing?
LAURA: What if it has to do with you, Caduceus?
What if the cocoon has to do with you?
TRAVIS: Shoot one of your ol' fucking arrows at it.
SAM: Sure, I'll shoot an arrow--
LAURA: What? At the cocoon?
TALIESIN: I don't know if that's a good idea.
SAM: Why?
It's just going to, I mean, there's either
something in there or not.
TRAVIS: I totally agree.
MATT: You're shooting a bolt into it?
SAM: Well, I'll wait 'til I have quorum.
TALIESIN: This is a holy site.
MARISHA: What?
TALIESIN: This is a place of death.
MARISHA: Oh okay, well then I'm not going to do it.
MARISHA: How do you know that?
TALIESIN: This is where I'm going.
LAURA: So--
MARISHA: All of this is a holy place?
SAM: This is your place?
TALIESIN: We're not there yet, but--
MARISHA: Well, then it's not a holy place.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: This may be part of it.
LAURA: Well, what are we supposed to do with it?
What does your old story say?
TALIESIN: They don't talk about it.
MARISHA: Should we shoot it or not, Caduceus?
LIAM: While everyone is debating,
Frumpkin, on two legs, just slowly stumbled up
while they debated and it's already there
and I'm going to have him just crawl up a bit and go--
TRAVIS: To the waxy cocoon?
LIAM: Yeah.
TRAVIS: I love it.
MATT: It taps.
It's a hard waxy shell.
There's a lot of fungus around.
LAURA: Is it all that same kind of fungus
or is it all different kinds?
MATT: It's the same kind of purplish-blue
fungus, just much larger.
It's in patches, it's not completely covering it,
but a lot of it, probably about 60% or 70% of it,
is covered by pieces of it.
TALIESIN: I'm going to walk up to
a little bit of it and put out my staff and:
Do you play well with others?
I'm going to invite it into my staff
to see if they get along.
MATT: It doesn't seem to respond.
TALIESIN: Interesting.
SAM: Oh well.
LIAM: It doesn't respond to Frumpkin's skittering
all over it, knocking on it with his little monkey paws?
MATT: Frumpkin isn't skittering through.
Do you want Frumpkin to physically jostle the fungus?
LIAM: He could cover it up and yeah, just give a little.
MATT: Mmkay.
LIAM: See if it does anything.
MATT: Frumpkin gives a heavy jostle
to one of the larger mushrooms, the caps there,
and it pulls back in a little bit,
it recoils slightly.
LIAM: Yeah?
MTT: Then (wheezes) this cloud of spores
(dispersing)--
MARISHA: Caduceus.
MATT: Comes out in about a three or four foot range
from that cap.
MARISHA: Caduceus!
MATT: Go ahead and roll a constitution saving throw
for Frumpkin.
LIAM: I'm sure that'll go well.
LAURA: We're not by these spores, right?
We're not close to the spores?
TALIESIN: Don't irritate the fungus.
LAURA: Please don't turn us into--
LIAM: Constitution, you say?
MATT: Yeah.
LIAM: 10.
MATT: 10.
Frumpkin is poisoned.
SAM: Poisoned?
LAURA: Aww.
LIAM: Does he take any instant damage or is he--
MATT: No damage.
LIAM: Okay.
MATT: He's just poisoned.
LIAM: (hacks)
MARISHA: Oh, is he going to poof in six seconds?
LIAM: No, if there's no damage, he's not.
MATT: None yet.
LAURA: Some poison does make you
poop in, like, six seconds.
TALIESIN: There is talk of a, of an oasis
in a red and gold veined cave.
LAURA: Red and gold.
TALIESIN: Maybe this is what that's from.
They're just stories, is the trouble.
I've never seen it personally.
LAURA: Don't oasises usually have water?
TALIESIN: They do.
LAURA: Hmm.
MARISHA: But red and gold?
TALIESIN: Red and gold.
LAURA: I don't see any gold, though.
MARISHA: But red like the soil?
TALIESIN: Red like the soil.
LAURA: What if we melt the wax and it turns, like, yellow?
TALIESIN: I don't think that's--
MARISHA: I don't know, she's got a point.
TRAVIS: Isn't it a problem if Frumpkin is poisoned and--
LIAM: Well, he has never been poisoned, I don't know.
Are you okay?
MATT: (monkey cooing)
(vomiting)
(groaning)
TRAVIS: I'll call Frumpkin over and I'll
Lay on Hands for Frumpkin and--
LIAM: He leaps onto Caduceus' staff and fireman down
and then scurries over to Fjord.
TRAVIS: I will use Lay on Hands
for the first time and neutralize a poison.
MATT: All right.
SAM: You can do that?
LAURA: What?
MATT: So you use
five points of your-- I think it's five, right?
Five hit points of your--
LAURA: Use that many?
How many times can you do that a day?
MATT: Twice, technically, I think because
it's five per level.
LAURA: You wasted it on Frumpkin.
What if one of us gets poisoned?
SAM: He's an animal lover.
TRAVIS: Frumpkin takes chances, I like that.
(laughter)
LAURA: Sprinkle, go check out that pile of waxy stuff.
MATT: (weasel chittering)
Sprinkle, who's still poofed up like this
furred collar around the back of Jester's head,
just recoils deeper into her coat
like (weasel hissing).
LAURA: He's not going to do it.
(laughter)
MATT: Do you guys want to keep moving?
What do you want to do?
LIAM: Did that cure Frumpkin's poison?
MATT: Yeah, Frumpkin is no longer poisoned.
LIAM: Oh hey, you are with Fjord today.
He skitters up the leg all the way up to the top
and sits on his shoulder.
LAURA: Caduceus, you tell us.
What do you want us to do here?
Do you us to leave it alone, do you want us to keep going?
Do you want us fuck with this cocoon thing or what?
TALIESIN: My instinct is to leave it alone,
but--
SAM: All right, then.
Let's keep going.
LAURA: Let's keep going.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: But it's good imagery
for your religion.
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah,
I'm writing down all of these things.
SAM: Where the wax drips large.
TRAVIS: You don't want to melt the waxy cocoon
to see what's underneath it?
LAURA: I mean, I do.
LIAM: Get some distance from it--
TRAVIS: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
back up.
LIAM: Let's get like,
yeah, you know, 50 or 60 feet back.
TALIESIN: All right.
LAURA: But what if
it has to do with Caduceus' stuff
and then we ruin his whole family religion?
LIAM: Well, you are leading this expedition, so really.
What do you want to do here?
TALIESIN: If you want to take a look inside from a distance,
I will trust your judgment.
I've, honestly,
I'm not an expert--
TRAVIS: That's very generous of you, we do.
TALIESIN: I'm not an expert here, I just know what I know.
LIAM: Okay, well I will start by just taking 30 seconds
to throw three or four Fire Bolts.
Bolts.
MATT: Okay.
It's a large enough target where you
don't need to worry about rolling for it necessarily.
You just launch it and (flying Fire Bolts)
and they slam into it like this
tiny fiery missiles, these (impacts).
As it impacts, the first one hits further up
and exposes some of the wax, immediately
breaks off and melts at the same time
and you can see a bit of darker
reddish-brown fur exposed, though matted.
One of the following ones hits the midsection
and as it hits, the wax melts away,
leaving a hole, and immediately, (glugging liquid)
some liquid begins to just pour out of it.
LAURA: Oh no.
MATT: Some kind of
mildly greenish, blackish, thick,
sludge-like liquid that's spilling out of the hole
down the side of the wax, over the mushrooms and go down.
SAM: A pupa of some kind?
MARISHA: Slurpee suicide!
LAURA: Did we kill it? Are we killing something?
SAM: It could be a baby that's growing in there.
TRAVIS: I think it's decomposing.
TALIESIN: I think it's just decomposing.
MATT: Now the smell hits you.
ALL: Ugh.
MATT: An extremely grotesque,
strong, putrid decay.
As you can see, as the wax melts
and the liquid comes to spill out of it,
you get the sense that whatever was captured in there,
based on the acid damage you saw on the bones earlier,
has been slowly dissolving inside this cocoon
and what has been dissolving has now been
pouring out of the hole that you left in its side.
LIAM: So there was a little bit of fur left at the top
but further down, ♪ further down ♪--
MATT: You still don't know quite what this creature is,
you've only exposed little elements of it,
but the smell is awful.
LAURA: But the creature is
really big.
MATT: Most of you guys begin
to start just heaving.
TALIESIN: We should head out.
MATT: The creature is big.
LAURA: And whatever it was
that did this is even bigger. (gags)
MARISHA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: We're going to keep marching.
TRAVIS: Let's go!
LIAM: How was that for a prank?
MATT: You continue on your path and--
MARISHA: While we walk, I keep an eye towards the canopy,
just to make sure.
MATT: Okay.
I would say Caduceus and Jester,
you would begin to hear, as you guys move on
about 30, 40, 50 feet from this,
trying to get away from the smell,
and the smell seems to be chasing you,
it's just filling this area of the jungle,
you begin to hear like a (clicking).
LAURA: Oh no.
MATT: A little ways off in the distance.
TRAVIS: Ah, wildlife.
MARISHA: We're going to get cocooned.
MATT: (chittering and clicking)
And you start hearing bushes shifting.
TALIESIN: -- to hide behind trees in the opposite direction
to prepare.
LAURA: We should hide?
We should hide.
AM: Okay, I'll hide.
MARISHA: We're hiding?
LAURA: In the trees?
Not on the ground.
It's probably going to come--
MATT: You hear distant ferns and bushes and leaves
and other elements of the forest floor being jostled
and moved just outside of your perimeter.
MARISHA: Is it--
MATT: (rustling)
TRAVIS: I'm going to light up the sword.
MATT: The sword lights up.
You hear (skittering) a heavy wood sound
and you see, just out of the right side
of where you are, Caduceus, you see these
bladed legs (skittering)
climb up the side of a tree and just curve around to look.
You see roughly the size of
a wolverine or a large badger,
but its body is this
chitinous insect-like plates,
pale white,
almost translucent, its legs
coming to these arched, dagger-like points
as it climbs up the side of the tree.
Its tail goes behind it in this long,
lobster-like fashion that
comes into two pincer-like blades.
You cannot see where a face would be,
it's just a bald, armored front,
and it (insect chitter)--
SAM and LIAM: Ugh.
MATT: (skittering),
and then disappears up into the tree.
You just hear more and more
of the jungle moving around you.
(groaning)
TALIESIN: Everyone back to back.
MATT: Drawn, probably, by the exposed smell--
SAM: Oh no.
MATT: Of a long-simmering meal
that's now been left to spill
on the jungle floor.
MARISHA: Back to back!
MATT: And that's where we're going to go take a break.
(groaning)
SAM: Wow.
ASHLEY: Oh, they are so ugly.
LIAM: It's making me think of those fuzzy millipedes
that you used to find in the bathroom sometimes.
You know what I'm talking about?
MARISHA: Oh god.
LIAM: Ah, gross.
MARISHA: You mean the--
TRAVIS: Silverfish?
LAURA: They were just the silverfish?
MATT: Silverfish. Very much the inspiration here.
LAURA: You were really, really, really
hoping we would mess with it, weren't you?
MATT: Yeah, I was!
LAURA: It was just sitting there going, "Poke me."
TALIESIN: You're welcome.
MATT: Yeah.
Well, that's what I do. I put stuff there
and say, "You can poke me."
Sometimes it's good, sometimes it's bad.
(groaning)
You guys almost left it. I was like, "All right, cool.
"We're going to skip this encounter."
TALIESIN: I'm not going to pretend I didn't know
how this was going to end.
MATT: Of course, of course.
TRAVIS: See what's in the corner of that video game--
LIAM: You just need to poke that chair
just a little bit longer.
MATT: Sometimes you get information, sometimes you get loot,
sometimes you get cool encounters,
sometimes you draw a bunch of creatures your way.
LAURA: Oh god.
MATT: We have our Wyrmwood giveaway tonight.
MATT: The fantastic purpleheart dice vault.
Outstanding wood, special, goes to one lucky winner tonight.
The keyword tonight is gateway, one word, gateway.
Enter it once and once only.
More than once will be disqualified.
Once again, for people in the US
and Canada only, excluding Quebec.
We'll come back here shortly with the winner
and the rest of tonight's session.
See you soon.
TRAVIS: Chicka-chick-ah.
(upbeat music)
♪ You got the perfect warlock ♪
♪ Her weapons and supplies ♪
♪ But you need a place to track your stuff ♪
♪ 'cause you're so disorganized ♪
♪ You click open the webpage ♪
♪ You heard about on Critical Role ♪
♪ And now you're ready to kick some butt ♪
♪ In that mineshaft full of gnolls ♪
♪ It's D&D ♪
♪ D&D (yeah!) ♪
♪ D&D Beyond ♪
♪ Yeah D&D ♪
♪ D&D (yeah!) ♪
♪ D&D Beyond ♪
♪ You got your stats, you got your swords ♪
♪ And you got your invisible wand ♪
♪ It's D&D ♪
♪ D&D ♪
♪ D&D Beyond ♪
(upbeat music)
(mellow rock music)
♪ Ooh ooh ahh ♪
♪ Ooh ooh ooh ♪
♪ Ooh ooh ooh ahh ♪
(mellow rock music)
LIAM: We're talking about ghosts
today, ladies and gentlemen.
SAM: We are talking about ghosts.
SAM: Ghosts.
BRIDGET: Ghosts.
LIAM: Otherworldly. Ghost.
SAM: Ghost.
Ghosts.
LIAM: Ghost.
SAM: Ghost.
LIAM: Forget ghosts
because this is the real--
LAURA: Ghosts.
BRIDGET: There is--
LIAM: Ghosts,
like that's my ghosts.
SAM: Oh my god.
Ghosts. Ghost. Ghosts.
BRIDGET: Ghost.
SAM: Ghost, Ghost.
Ghost.
LIAM: Ghost.
DAVID: Ghost.
SAM: Lionel Richie's pre-ghost.
Ghosts?
BRIDGET: Yes.
LIAM: Ghosts?
DAVID: Yes.
LAURA: Ghosts.
SAM: Ghosts.
DAVID: That's a ghost, that's a ghost, that's another ghost.
There's a ghost, there's a ghost, there's a ghost.
BRIDGET: Should I should move or should I stay?
LIAM: Ghosts.
SAM: Ghosts.
Ghosts don't make complete sentences.
Ghost.
LIAM: Ghost. Ghosts. Ghost.
Yum yum. (speaks in a ghostly language)
SAM: Ghost cigarette?
(yelling)
Ghosts, ghosts, ghosts.
What do I do?
BRIDGET: A ghost.
Ghost.
LAURA: Ghost.
SAM: (yelling)
LAURA: Sam!
BRIDGET: You ran right through it!
SAM: I killed a ghost?
BRIDGET: You killed a ghost.
OFF-CAMERA: Is he still there?
SAM: I killed a ghost.
(tubular upbeat music)
BRIAN (V.O.): Last time on Talks Machina.
BRIAN: Who got--
LAURA: Stupefy.
(laughter)
BRIAN: It didn't work--
LAURA: Dude--
BRIAN: I'm already stupid.
LAURA: We're teaching Ronin
how to use The Force.
SAM: Oh!
BRIAN: The Force?
LAURA: Yeah.
BRIAN: Oh yeah, he did it on me the other day.
LAURA: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
BRIAN: Yeah, yeah, he did it on me.
SAM: Does he Force push?
BRIAN: Yeah, yeah, he pushes.
LAURA: He goes (grunts)--
BRIAN: Uh-huh.
LAURA: Right now.
Yeah.
BRIAN: And I will literally
fly across the house to make him laugh
because--
LAURA: Yeah.
BRIAN: That's what uncles are for.
You would know if you didn't have the restraining order.
SAM: Well, I'm spending too much time with
pets that I love.
BRIAN: Mm-hmm, sure, yeah.
Oh boy.
SAM: Back and forth, right?
BRIAN: Oh yeah, mm-hmm.
SAM: That's how you pet.
LAURA: Your hand up, other side.
SAM: Ah.
BRIAN: No, no no, no no.
LAURA: No, no, no.
BRIAN: Oh.
LAURA: That was creepy, nothing else was.
BRIAN: Okay, stand by.
ArseQueef, you up?
Okay, there we go.
Seedy88 wants to know: "How much of Jester's plan
"had you worked out prior to speaking to Isharnai?
"What parts did you have to change on the fly?"
LAURA: I think it during Beau's talk.
SAM: I saw you pull it out
and I knew something was happening.
LAURA: Yeah?
SAM: Yeah.
Yeah, there was even a moment when fucking Taliesin
and I think also Marisha were like,
"Well, I'm going to go up and--"
and I was like, "Ah, (shushing noises).
"She's doing her thing. Fuck off.
"She's got something."
LAURA: Which is crazy
because I feel like Taliesin should've
had an idea what I was going to do
because I had been leaning over to Tal,
whispering, going, "Do you have Bane prepared?"
Because if he had Bane prepared,
because I forgot I had the dust until
and I was trying to figure out a way to get her wisdom down
so that I could do the Modify Memory.
BRIAN: Mm-hmm.
LAURA: But I didn't have a back up.
Basically, if it had failed,
I probably would have died.
BRIAN: Okay.
"Did you plan for the Traveler
"to be Artagan or was it Matt's idea?
"Did you have a guess as to his true identity before this?"
I know the answer to this because
I asked you.
LAURA: I know.
Yeah, I did know. But here's the thing: so--
SAM: Was it your idea?
LAURA: It was.
SAM: (gasps) You're so brilliant!
BRIAN: That's what we've been trying to tell you, Sam.
LAURA: But, so-- I'm wearing my Traveler Con hoodie.
DANI: Ooh.
BRIAN: Available now.
LAURA: Hey.
BRIAN: Shop.critrole.com.
LAURA: No, because I have mentioned on this show before
that my original plan was to make a warlock
and I was going to make a warlock
with the fey pact to Artagan
and then I was going to have the book--
BRIAN: Artágan's how you pronounce it?
LAURA: I know! I thought it was Árt-uh-gan.
But no, I heard Matt saying its Artágan.
SAM: Artágan.
LAURA: I know!
BRIAN: I can't believe I've been pronouncing that wrong
this whole time--
LAURA: There's a thing called the
book pact or something like that
and I was like, "What a way to worship him is, like,
"a spell book with lewd drawings in it,
"that's so perfect."
BRIAN: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Then Travis was like, "What, warlock? Okay."
Then I was like, "Oh shit, I have to be a cleric."
So I asked Matt, "Can I still have him as my god?"
He's like, "Yeah, we can make it work."
However, we started the game and then
he just kept being really mysterious about it
and then every time I would have
an interaction with the Traveler,
I kept looking at Matt like, "I know who it is."
He would be, like, looking at me like I was an idiot.
Like, "No, you don't know."
So I thought he'd changed it
and he was going to surprise me.
So the whole time, I've been like,
"It's not him, it's not Artagan.
"I guess Matt went a different direction,
"that's totally cool."
So that was totally genuine when he revealed
and I saw the hair and I realized it was still him.
I was like, "Aah!" (laughs)
BRIAN: "What made you spontaneously
decide to hire a housekeeper?"
SAM: Well, in-game,
Nott was concerned with our home
when we are not there.
Then Sam Riegel was also remembering
when we had the Greyskull Keep in the first campaign
we had fucking staff.
LAURA: Yeah, I feel like Vox Machina's
the type to have staff.
Mighty Nein--
DANI: Not so much.
LAURA: Less so.
SAM: But it
makes sense--
BRIAN: Well, a lot of you aren't
as trusting.
SAM: If we have a house,
we should have someone to check in on it.
That's just basic home ownership.
LAURA: But isn't that, like, they're constantly scrying
on the house, I bet, so I'm sure
people are looking at the house.
SAM: Every homeowner hires someone to watch
after their house--
BRIAN: No.
SAM: In the world.
SAM: Right?
BRIAN: No.
See? He likes it.
SAM: He likes it.
BRIAN: Wow, good job.
DANI: That's a good boy.
LAURA: Dogs know if the person's creepy.
BRIAN: Pretty normal.
LAURA: So that's important that--
BRIAN: That's pretty,
he is facing away--
SAM: He won't look me in the eye.
BRIAN: I think with that many teeth,
he's a little worried about--
LAURA: Look at Henry, he's just looking at the camera like.
Like The Office.
SAM: I don't normally
trust landsharks, but I guess I'll trust this one.
BRIAN: Yeah, okay.
DANI: What a good boy.
BRIAN: Sam, Quinn-Quinn wants to know: "What are Nott's
"favorite memories with Travis and Ashley?"
These are the names he chose for Nott's parents.
Oh no.
SAM: What are Nott's favorite memories
with Travis and Ashley?
(laughter)
Oh, well, you know.
DANI: Enjoy your hubris. (laughs)
SAM: That time that Travis and Ashley
took Veth--
BRIAN: Took him to the, took her to the old--
SAM: -- to-- Man, my hand hurts.
BRIAN: From petting a dog for 13 seconds?
LAURA: Oh my god,
you've got so many more callouses now, Sam.
All that hard work.
BRIAN: Those lily white hands.
SAM: Housekeeper!
Housekeeper, I need you!
DANI: You don't even know the name of your housekeeper!
SAM: Mine--
LAURA: Massage your hand.
(laughter)
SAM: Housekeeper!
(gentle electronic tones)
MATT: (as Pumat Sol) (grunts) Oh, well!
Would you look at that?
I think it worked.
You were right, Pumat Number Three.
All we had to do was invoke that subscription cantrip.
Pumat Number Three?
Oh boy.
Well, hello there!
I'm Pumat Prime.
It's good to finally join you here in the Prime Dimension.
I see this is the Twitch Prime realm,
I think, and the, oh, we're on the
Critical Role channel, aren't we?
Well, would you look at that?
You got chat and everything.
Respectfully, I was looking for the
prime rib realm, but this isn't too bad.
You see, if you already have access to
the Amazon Prime realm, you can get a free subscription
to the channel of your choice in the Twitch Prime realm.
The two realms have a pretty good
working relationship after that peace treaty
the Prime Minister signed a few years back.
You just have to remember to renew
your Twitch Prime subscription at
the top of each month, respectfully.
And hey, if you're already a subscriber,
you can spread the joy by gifting
a subscription using the Gift A Sub button.
That is, assuming the Empire hasn't
sent a taxman to your shoppe recently. (chuckles)
All right, well, I'm off to find
that darn elusive prime rib realm.
Who knew the Prime Dimension had so many pockets?
Good luck. (chuckles)
(receding footsteps)
Pumat Three!
(gentle music)
TALIESIN (V.O.): Subscribe.
Re-subscribe.
Brian Foster is not a cabbage.
(dramatic music)
MATT: And welcome back.
You're getting lazy.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: I wanted that one to hang.
MATT: Good.
TALIESIN: Thank you.
MATT: Welcome back.
So first, we have our winner of the Wyrmwood giveaway.
The winner is 19infectious19.
SAM: 19infectious19.
MATT: 19infectious19.
Congratulations, we'll get that sent out to you ASAP.
LIAM: That was a good year.
MATT: It was.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: We just said Beetlejuice's name twice.
MARISHA: Oh my god. (laughs)
MATT: So.
(laughter)
You guys have gathered back to back,
aside from Nott, who, roll stealth for me?
SAM: Oh yeah.
LIAM: Does she have advantage in
her Traveler illusory cloak?
MATT: She has advantage because of her cloak anyway.
LIAM: Right, it's because of the cloak.
SAM: It was--
MATT: Yes.
SAM: Oh, why can't I find stealth?
Oh, there it is, 24.
MATT: Okay, good to know.
Everyone, roll initiative.
LAURA: I'm going to Invoke Duplicity.
I was going to do that as we were caught up,
but it's fine if I didn't say it.
MATT: I'll say, I'll say, (sighs)
SAM: Say no.
MATT: I'll say roll initiative.
SAM: Are we all rolling initiative?
MATT: You are all rolling initiative.
LIAM: I say, I say.
TRAVIS: ♪ I say! ♪
LIAM: I love being last.
LAURA: You won't be.
TALIESIN: It's okay.
MATT: All right.
TALIESIN: Healer's got the backpack.
MATT: 25 to 20?
MARISHA: 24. I want a dry erase marker.
MATT: Beau!
20 to 15?
TRAVIS: 17.
Am I the highest?
LAURA: No, Beau is the highest.
MATT: All right.
15 to 10?
ASHLEY: Uh, 10.
SAM: Eight.
LAURA: Oof.
TRAVIS: Wow, what the fuck, guys?
MARISHA: Oof.
MATT: All right.
Ten to five?
LIAM: Oh, seven.
Excuse me.
TALIESIN: Six.
LIAM: You did that?
LAURA: Six.
TALIESIN: Are we both six?
LAURA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Shit.
MATT: All right.
Who has the higher dexterity?
LAURA: Me.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
My dex is 12.
LAURA: What did you roll, Yasha?
ASHLEY: I rolled a 10.
MARISHA: Yes.
MATT: All righty.
MARISHA: 100%.
MATT: So.
Beginning at this, you've only seen one of
these creatures that climbed up into this tree.
Beau, you're up.
MARISHA: Oh boysies, okay.
He went up here?
MATT: Up into this tree,
right here.
MARISHA: Into that tree?
Do I want to go after him?
Okay.
Yeah, yeah, fuck it.
Let's just go for it, let's just go up the tree.
LAURA: What?
MARISHA: Yes.
Yeah.
LAURA: Back to back, Beau!
Back to--
MARISHA: I want to see what it is!
MARISHA: Okay, as you rush past and head up in the tree--
TRAVIS: That's one way to peek.
MATT: You do come face to face with one of these creatures.
MARISHA: Hey, oh. What is it?
What was it?
SAM: Looks like an albino crab.
MARISHA: Oh, it's straight up like a silverfish.
Yeah, okay.
LAURA: Don't fight it.
MATT: You see, you run up the tree
(impacts) up into the bough
and it's right there. (insect chitter)
MARISHA: Uh, I found it!
MATT: Mmkay.
MARISHA: I grab it and I'm just going to spike it
to the floor, right to the group.
MATT: Okay, so you're going to go ahead and we'll say it's
a shove attack, so go ahead and make an attack roll.
MARISHA: Okay.
MATT: Or actually, this would be--
TRAVIS: You're going to throw the thing down there with us?
MARISHA: I want to show you guys what it is.
TRAVIS: Just hold it out.
MARISHA: I'm being very progressive right now.
LAURA: Are you going to spike it to where
you're trying to do some damage as it--
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: Make an athletics check.
MARISHA: Pop. Okay.
LAURA: It's a bug.
Bugs are really--
MARISHA: Straight athletics?
MATT: Yep.
MARISHA: Okay.
14.
MATT: Seven.
TRAVIS: 15.
MARISHA: 15, 15.
MATT: You succeed.
As soon as it
pulls back, brings part of its pointed legs upward,
you just grab one and (yells) chuck it out of the tree.
MARISHA: It's gross!
MATT: It falls prone
on the ground right there.
LIAM: Ew!
MATT: It would take-- I'd say at
that fall there, it's about 20 or so feet--
seven points of bludgeoning damage.
MARISHA: Still alive?
SAM: Look, we're already winning.
MATT: Yeah.
It's on the ground (insect chitter)
about to get righted or trying to.
MARISHA: Can I still do stuff?
MATT: Yeah.
You're up in the tree still.
TRAVIS: Can I still do stuff?
MARISHA: Can I-- how far up am I?
LAURA: 20 feet.
MATT: 20 feet.
MARISHA: Can I--
MATT: But you moved 10 feet to get there,
so you've used 10 feet of your movement.
MARISHA: Can I
vault off the ropes-- the tree, and
back flip and then People's Elbow down into the silverfish?
MATT: I'll allow it, yeah.
LIAM: Ooh yeah.
MATT: So roll an acrobatics check.
MARISHA: Okay.
LIAM: (as Hulk Hogan) Lemme tell you something, brother.
MARISHA: Natural 20.
(cheering)
MATT: So you throw it down, you see it hit the ground,
you reach up and grab the branch above and
(wind noises) release after one full revolution in the air.
You guys watch, jettisoning out from the side
of the treeline (rushing wind) this spinning, tumbling
Beauregard freight train coming elbow-down.
So you will not take any fall damage.
MARISHA: Cool.
SAM: Nice.
MATT: It's a safe fall and everything,
you're pretty damn good as a monk.
Go ahead and roll your second attack.
LIAM: But Beauregardless.
MARISHA: (groans)
TRAVIS: Yeah, that's what you get, that's what you get.
LAURA: Seriously?
MARISHA: I rolled a one on damage.
Super cool when you double it to two.
MATT: That was your acrobatics check, was the critical.
You haven't rolled to hit with the second attack.
MARISHA: Oh, cool, cool.
LAURA: Oh good.
MARISHA: Cool, cool, cool, that doesn't count.
LIAM: Cocked.
TALIESIN: It's cocked.
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: So roll for an attack.
MARISHA: Okay, 22.
MATT: And because it is prone, attack rolls
against it have advantage, so you get--
MARISHA: 22, 22 twice.
MATT: Yeah.
So you hit. Go ahead and--
(laughter)
TRAVIS: What the fuck?
MARISHA: A one on the same dice, so,
Don't high five that above me!
Like that was cool, dope bro shit.
Don't you like--
LIAM: The cool part
is that we laugh cruelly at you at the same time.
MATT: Friendship.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: Your pain is our enjoyment.
MATT: How much damage is done?
MARISHA: Seven.
LIAM: See,
we feel better because you feel worse.
MARISHA: Yes, it's schadenfreude, I get it.
I get it.
MATT: So,
wham, landing and slamming your elbow into
the bottom of its exposed carapace underneath,
it (screeches) pulls back and its legs curl in.
You withdraw and get back to your feet.
You still have your bonus action.
MARISHA: Oh, okay.
Pop pop, Flurry of Blows.
MATT: Go for it.
LIAM: (sighs)
MARISHA: (laughs)
Okay, first one is 26, second one is 12.
MATT: 12 misses.
MARISHA: Okay.
TALIESIN: Good to know.
MARISHA: (laughs) Nine damage.
MATT: Nine damage, all righty.
So after you give him the elbow, you bring your leg up
and do an ax kick down onto it, crack.
It hits him, (insect shrieks)
sits there shrieking in its space.
You pull your leg up and it pulls away
and your second impact ends up hitting the dirt below it,
the soft impact against the rotted floor.
You do, however, as part of the Extract Aspects,
you got a quick glance as, after the second impact,
your ki went into it and you're
able to read its body essence.
It is resistant to acid and necrotic damage
and it is immune to being frightened or charmed.
SAM: Okay, okay.
TRAVIS: Okay.
MARISHA: Okay, I communicate that.
MATT: All right.
Beau, that finishes your turn.
Fjord, you're up.
TRAVIS: It's still prone, correct?
(laughter)
The white scorpion is--
MATT: It's still prone.
TRAVIS: It's still prone.
I will take two swings at it with the Star Razor.
MATT: All right.
TRAVIS: With advantage, yes?
MATT: Yep. Are you moving over to this space here
or are you moving through to this side?
TRAVIS: I'll go over to that other side.
MATT: All right, over here?
TRAVIS: No, I'm sorry,
where you were before.
MATT: Okay, gotcha.
TALIESIN: I like the foliage is so thick
that it's genuinely hard to see anything.
In a good way.
MATT: Yeah, make you work for it, yeah?
TRAVIS: First one is a 26.
MATT: This is with an advantage, too, cause it's prone.
TRAVIS: Yes.
MATT: Yeah.
So it hits.
TRAVIS: 26.
And the second one is a 24.
MATT: Both hit.
TRAVIS: Great.
So we're rolling one d10.
That's-- yeah, okay, that's 16 points of slashing damage
and (stutters)
15 points.
MATT: All right.
TRAVIS: So 31 total.
MATT: So you rush past,
striking once with a blade.
As it swings through, you can see it cuts open
its outer shell, exposing a deeper
purplish-type musculature underneath the armor.
You bring the blade down and,
thrusting it down into the weak space
and turn the blade and as it does,
(shrieks) the arms all curl in and it is dead.
LAURA: Nice.
MARISHA: Yes!
TALIESIN: Well, that was easy.
SAM: Easy encounter.
TRAVIS: One down.
LAURA: Wonderful.
TALIESIN: Take a long rest.
MATT: All right, cool guys.
Well, thanks--
LIAM: Back away.
TRAVIS: Does any liquid
come out of the creature of any color,
viscous, form, anything like that?
MATT: A similar purplish fluid as blood as its interior.
But you hear that sound is still sifting all through
the jungle around you.
TRAVIS: Cool, cool, cool.
MATT: So is that your turn?
TRAVIS: Yes, that's my turn.
No bonus action.
MATT: Okay.
Now, you've seen the color of that creature,
that eerie, creepy pale white
milky texture to its body and shell.
You now see more of it, dots of it,
moving through the underbrush and you hear them
communicating and clicking. (insect chitters)
SAM: Oh no.
MATT: And (rushing sound)
they begin to rush forward.
LAURA: Oh god.
(miniatures clattering against each other)
LIAM: (skittering legs)
LAURA: Oh no, oh no!
SAM: Ugh.
LAURA: They're so close already!
How did they get here?
TALIESIN: They go on after Fjord's turn,
I guess?
MATT: They do.
You guys rolled really shitty initiative
and they rolled decently--
LAURA: Yes, we did.
MATT: Because they're pretty quick.
SAM: Oh man, there's so many of them.
LAURA: Yup.
SAM: There's--
MATT: All righty.
So--
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: These two here are going
to use their Wax Tomb ability.
LAURA: Wax Tomb?
SAM: Tomb.
Oh noes!
MATT: 15 foot cone, that's--
LAURA: Back to back was a very bad idea.
MATT: Fjord, Caduceus, Beauregard, and Jester,
I need you all to make a dexterity saving throw, please.
LIAM: Genevieve?
LAURA: I do like Genevieve,
but I thought that was a good--
TALIESIN: Saving throw extra.
Ooh.
ASHLEY: Shit.
TRAVIS: 20.
MATT: 20.
You take seven points of acid damage and are not restrained.
Beauregard.
MARISHA: 12.
MATT: 12.
You take 14 points of acid damage and you are restrained.
You can see as they vomit outward
this thick, steaming viscous liquid
as it splatters, it hardens into a wax-like shell.
You are currently, like, stapled
to the log behind you and the ground
and your legs are stuck to the ground
and you're having to try and pull
and break out of it as its hardening around you,
burning you and holding you in place.
Jester?
LAURA: Dexterity?
MATT: Yes.
LAURA: 10.
MATT: 10, you also take 17 points of acid damage
and you are also restrained,
held in place by a waxy substance.
Caduceus?
TALIESIN: 16.
MATT: 16, you take seven points and you are not restrained.
TALIESIN: Seven points of acid damage.
LAURA: (quietly) Ow ow ow ow.
MATT: This guy here is going to spray this way.
SAM: Oh boy, they've all got it.
TALIESIN: Dammit.
MATT: I need Yasha, Caleb, Caduceus, Fjord, and Jester
to all roll another dexterity saving throw.
SAM: There's a lot of these guys.
LIAM: Natural 20!
TALIESIN: Another dex save?
MATT: You have disadvantage, Jester, so.
TALIESIN: I don't suppose I get to knock one of these, okay.
TRAVIS: 16.
MATT: 16, that is...
yeah, another seven points of acid damage
and you are not restrained.
LIAM: Natural 20.
MATT: Natural 20.
Seven points, not restrained.
LAURA: 15.
MATT: 15?
Seven points, you are still restrained.
TALIESIN: Natural 20, 21.
MATT: All right,
seven points of acid damage.
ASHLEY: 22.
MATT: Seven points of acid damage.
Nice.
SAM: I think there's three more of them.
LAURA: I cannot believe we did this to ourselves right now.
MATT: These two are pincer attacking on Caleb.
LIAM: Oh good.
MATT: And with Pack Tactics,
they have advantage on their attacks.
A bite and a claw attack against you, Caleb.
LIAM: Okay.
MATT: Oof, that is a
14.
LIAM: Does not hit.
MATT: And that is a
21.
LIAM: Hits.
MATT: All right. It tries, you watch that, where you didn't
see the face before, it was this solid shell,
underneath, these two jaw-like pincers, rear up
and it folds open underneath revealing
a bladed jaw that's normally hidden and folded inward.
It tries to bite towards you
and you hold it back with your foot.
As you kick it away, one of its slicing claws
scrapes the back of your leg and you take...
14 points of slashing damage.
LIAM: Ooh!
MATT: The other one, now,
as you back up, there's one right behind you.
That's going to be a 25 to hit.
LIAM: That hits.
MATT: And a 18 to hit.
LIAM: Ah, Shield.
MATT: All right. The Shield goes up.
It attempts to bite towards you
and the secondary one, its jaws open,
okay, and that is seven points of piercing damage
plus eight points of acid damage.
TRAVIS: Whoa.
LIAM: Mm.
MATT: As its jaws sink into the side of your elbow and arm
and you have to rip your arm away from it
as it begins to dissolve and eat the inside of your arm.
It attempts, now, to claw at you
and you put the Shield up. (boof) Ends up knocking it back
with a flash of arcane resistance as you
(inhales) pull back, clutching your elbow.
The last one's going to be attacking you, Beauregard.
It has advantage because you are restrained.
That is going to be a 14 to hit.
MARISHA: Miss.
MATT: And a 20 to hit.
MARISHA: Hits.
MATT: All right.
Its claws come at you
for 14 points of slashing damage.
You're trying to pull
away and it bites at you.
You manage to push it
just back with one free arm,
but it manages to scrape across your forearm
with both of its front blades, blood now
pouring out of your forearm as you
withdraw yourself, trying to break free.
That finishes their turn.
Yasha, you're up. Nott, you're on deck.
ASHLEY: Okay, so the one nearest to me,
I would like to take the Skingorger and try to
pierce it through so it's stuck to the ground.
MATT: Go for it.
TALIESIN: This is full rage, or--
ASHLEY: Oh--I would like to rage.
Sorry.
Okay.
TALIESIN: Sorry.
ASHLEY: Hey no, don't you be sorry.
Yeah.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
ASHLEY: Okay.
19 plus nine, 28.
MATT: 28 hits.
ASHLEY: Okay.
First attack.
LAURA: If you're restrained, can you attack?
MATT: You can attack, you just have
disadvantage on your attacks.
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: But your speed is zero.
You cannot move.
Attacks against you have advantage.
ASHLEY: 22 for the first hit.
MATT: Ooh, nice.
ASHLEY: Second attack.
MATT: Yeah, go for it.
ASHLEY: Okay.
24?
MATT: Hits.
ASHLEY: Okay.
LAURA: (whispering) Fjord.
(whispering) Fjord.
(whispering) Do you want to get out of here?
TRAVIS: Yes.
ASHLEY: 15 points of damage.
MATT: 15 points of damage.
This one, after it sprayed this thick, sticky fluid
onto your friends that set them on the ground,
the steam rising up as it burns and hardens,
you come back and swipe once with the Skingorger,
cutting into its body, and the second time,
you split it in half (squelching)--
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MATT: And then both sides crawl for a second
before going still.
LAURA: Ew.
TRAVIS: (grossed out) Huh huh huh.
ASHLEY: Oh, I hate these things.
MATT: You still have your movement, if you want.
And you are not currently engaged with any of them.
You killed the one that was next to you.
TRAVIS: There's no way the blood acts as a--
ASHLEY: Okay, I will move a little bit
to the other side of the one--
the one closest to me, sorry.
MATT: So over here?
ASHLEY: Yes, yeah.
MATT: All righty. So you go ahead
and move to flank--
ASHLEY: Maybe not right by the stinger, but--
MATT: Right there?
ASHLEY: Yeah.
MATT: Okay, you got it.
TALIESIN: Still flanking, though.
MATT: Yep, still flanking with Fjord.
Finishes Yasha's go. Nott, you're up.
Caleb, you're on deck.
SAM: From the cover of the underbrush,
I will fire a crossbow bolt
at the one next to Caleb.
MATT: Before that happens--
SAM: (screams)
MATT: You're sitting there hiding
right next to these mushrooms
and as you're getting your bolt ready--
(crossbow loading)
the one next to you
releases a cloud of spores.
Make a constitution saving throw
at the start before your turn.
LAURA: Don't go near them.
Oh no, Beau, you're by one too.
SAM: Six.
MATT: Six? You are poisoned.
You can make your attack.
You are hidden, but you are poisoned, which makes it
a single roll and it does not have advantage.
But what are you attacking?
SAM: I'm attacking the one next to Caleb,
but if I'm rolling at disadvantage,
it is not a sneak attack.
MATT: Well, it's advantage because
it doesn't know it's there--
it doesn't know you're there
because you were hidden.
So it's just a straight roll.
Even so, because it's adjacent
to one of your allies
it still would be sneak attack damage.
SAM: Do I get a just poisoned
condition or do I take damage?
MATT: No damage, just poisoned condition
which means your attacks and--
SAM: All right, 25 to hit.
MATT: That hits, yeah.
So roll sneak attack.
SAM: Not great, not great.
LAURA: Yeah.
12,
17,
22 plus...
Six is 28.
MATT: 28 points of damage.
SAM: I don't think I get Fury of
the Small because they are small.
MATT: They are considered medium creatures.
SAM: Ooh.
LAURA: Sweet.
SAM: So I could.
Hmm.
Nah.
MATT: Okay.
As you cough for a second and release the bolt
from your crossbow, it sticks
in the back of the creature,
it curls onto its side
and then jumps back in place,
skittering to see where it came from.
It doesn't quite seem to notice
where you are, but it's still alive.
You have your bonus action still.
SAM: I will fire again at it.
MATT: Go for it.
SAM: (weak coughing)
And now, this is at disadvantage.
MATT: Correct, because you are no longer hidden.
SAM: Okay, still 24.
MATT: Still hits.
TALIESIN: Wow.
SAM: Okay.
And another 11 points of damage.
MATT: 11 points of damage.
You sink this one into
where its head would be,
though its jaws are no longer exposed,
and as it sinks in, it just--
(splatting)
onto the ground, no longer moving.
SAM: I will leave that cover place.
I don't want to be-- more poisoned?
Can you be more poisoned?
MATT: Only one way to find out.
SAM: I will leave.
MATT: Where you going?
SAM: Run over near-- behind Yasha.
MATT: Okay, move over in that space there.
All righty, you got it.
That finishes your turn?
SAM: Yeah.
MATT: Caleb, you're up.
Jester, you're on deck.
LAURA: Okay.
LIAM: Okay.
I stumble back, totally wrecked,
from the thing that attacked me,
pulling implements out of my bag
and iron dust goes through the air
and I pull my hands apart and
Beauregard doubles in size,
hopefully breaking out
of whatever she is in.
MATT: I will say that that--
LIAM: She doubles in size.
MATT: Because it makes sense, yeah.
Thematically? Yeah.
MARISHA: (victorious humming)
MATT: So you, (thudding) pushing back
the rotted log behind you,
it rolls--
exposing a bunch of the earth beneath it
and you see dozens of insects scatter
from underneath the wet, exposed earth
that was beneath the log.
And there you are.
LIAM: I am going to
chance a hit and try to
get away from the thing
and go up by those mushrooms--
MATT: Here?
LIAM: Up there, yeah.
MATT: All right, so five, 10, 15, 20, over here?
LIAM: Yeah, that's good.
MATT: All righty.
It's going to go ahead and take a swipe at you,
we'll say with its bite, yes.
Is this 'til the end of your next turn
or the beginning of your next turn?
LIAM: Oh jeez.
MATT: Double check that.
MATT: You have never asked me that question before.
Until the start of your next turn.
MATT: So you no longer have Shield.
LIAM: Oh, okay.
MATT: That is going to be a 21 to hit.
LIAM: That hits.
Scheiße.
MATT: All right.
So you take 13 points of piercing damage.
LIAM: Ugh.
MTT: And five points
of acid damage.
LIAM: Okay.
MATT: As it bites out of you, its head
opening once more into the split jaw
and the bladed tusks that come forward
and sinks into the side of your leg
as you try and pull away and you
stumble in the direction, getting off to
the side of the mushrooms, holding back the pain.
LIAM: Caleb's a bloody mess.
MATT: All right, that's the end of Caleb's turn.
Jester, you're up. Caduceus, you're on deck.
LAURA: Okay.
TALIESIN: Am I still restrained,
by the way?
MATT: You're still restrained.
Oh you, no you never became restrained, I don't think.
LAURA: No.
TALIESIN: No. No, I didn't.
MATT: No, you made the saves both times.
TALIESIN: Heh heh-heh.
LAURA: Okay.
I'm going to cast,
I'm going to cast Spiritual Guardians.
(laughter)
MATT: All righty.
TRAVIS: So certain.
LAURA: I'm going to hold up my hand with
the Traveler symbol on the wrist and I'm going to be like:
Okay, well, let's do this.
MATT: All righty, that puts it about there.
There's Beau.
Okay, Spiritual Guardians--
LAURA: So I'm casting that at fourth level.
MATT: At fourth level.
Suddenly, this darkened edge of the forest
is alight with what I assume to be dozens of
extremely swole tiny, angry, pink--
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: Unicorns or hamsters,
which are you doing this time?
LAURA: Oh, the hamster unicorns.
SAM: Sure, sure.
MATT: All right.
They are now just zipping through
and coming to pierce any creatures that comes near.
That's your action. Are you staying put?
LAURA: Well, I can, can I try to--
MATT: Oh no, you're restrained.
LAURA: Yeah, can I try to--
MATT: It's an action to
try and break free. It's an action to cast.
So you are remaining.
LAURA: Cool, cool, cool, cool.
MATT: Is that your turn?
LAURA: I mean, I guess so.
MATT: All right, Caduceus, you're up.
Beauregard, you're on deck.
TALIESIN: I'm going to do an old favorite.
Am I-- can I touch Beauregard without
triggering an attack from any of these creatures?
TRAVIS: Yeah, you're right next to her,
she's just much bigger right now.
TALIESIN: This is going to be funny.
Holy Weapon.
MARISHA: Ah!
I hope I don't fuck this up.
TALIESIN: I was trying to think of something
I haven't done in awhile.
I haven't done that in awhile.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
MATT: All right.
Caduceus is concentration.
TRAVIS: What's she getting?
MATT: Jester is concentration.
TALIESIN: You get an extra 2d8, actually,
that's a bonus action, too, which is kind of crazy.
MATT: I'll put this on Beauregard
as a reminder of the Holy Weapon.
LAURA: You just can't do any other spells.
TALIESIN: Yeah, I still haven't, I can do a cantrip
or a, so I'm going to use my cantrip
to do, I can Sacred Flame still since that's an action,
that was a bonus action, that's a cantrip, so.
That's a cantrip and a spell or no?
MATT: A spell and a cantrip you can do.
Sacred Flame is an action, though,
not a bonus action?
TALIESIN: It's a bonus action.
Oh no, not, Sacred Flame is an action.
MATT: Correct.
TALIESIN: But Holy Weapon's a bonus action.
MATT: Oh, that, then you can definitely do that, hell yeah.
What are you Sacred Flame-ing?
TALIESIN: Well, is anything-- who's threatening Caleb?
MATT: Right now, Caleb ran off to the side.
He's hurt, but he's run off.
LIAM: Pretty hurt.
TALIESIN: I'll do the one that's in front of me
that's not going to get attacked by Yasha
and the, yeah, I'm going to do the one
that's behind me.
MATT: Right there?
You got it.
TALIESIN: I'm just going to give it
a little Sacred Flame.
MATT: Dexterity saving throw.
Oh man, that rolled shitty.
That's an eight.
TALIESIN: Oh, so you take--
oh shit, I do a lot of damage on this thing.
Is that right?
Man, it's been awhile.
3d8, apparently.
LAURA: Cantrips.
TALIESIN: Ugh.
LAURA: Oh, balls.
TALIESIN: That's terrible, 14 points of radiant damage.
MATT: 14 points of radiant damage.
The radiant flame burns around its body,
it shrinks back and you can hear the squeaking sound of
some of its armored shell squeezing a little bit and--
TALIESIN: Back off, buddy.
MATT: It's still standing there.
TALIESIN: Yeah, and I'm just going to keep where I am.
MATT: All right, you got it. Caduceus' turn is done.
At the top of the round, Beau, before you go,
the skittering sounds continue to grow.
While they're not taking their turn yet--
SAM: Oh, man. More?
LIAM: Shit.
MATT: More begin to appear out of the nearby brush.
SAM: Oh noes.
Ohs noes.
Oh no!
Wait, what?
MATT: There we go.
SAM: This could be bad.
MATT: They haven't taken their turn yet.
Beau, you're up.
Your fists are glowing with radiant, divine,
Melora the Wildmother blessed energy.
You can feel the vibration between your fingers.
MARISHA: I spin my staff with a flourish
like a holy, radiant windmill.
SAM: Sure.
MARISHA: Then I don't use my staff
and I start just stomping the silverfish.
MATT: All right.
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: To the one right in front of you there?
MARISHA: Uh-huh, and then the one over there.
I'll do these two in front of me.
MATT: Okay, so focusing on the first one.
The first two attacks against it, or first attack.
What're you doing?
MARISHA: First attack on that one.
LAURA: Should switch your dice, man.
LIAM: It's a one.
MARISHA: I did, I did.
MARISHA: I did.
MATT: You bring your foot up (groans)
and as you stomp downward,
immediately skitters up out of the way
and your foot, hits the ground,
sending dirt and bits of leaf and vine up in the air
around it and as you look down,
it's just beyond the reach of your foot.
MARISHA: Fucking dick--
MATT: Second attack.
MARISHA: Hit again.
16.
MATT: 16 just hits.
MARISHA: Okay, that's the magic number.
Yeah, cool.
LIAM: Plus plus plus.
MARISHA: Plus, plus, wait, these are all these.
Wait, these are all these.
TALIESIN: Is that plus your 2d8?
MARISHA: Uh-huh.
Hang on, hang on, hang on.
Six plus two, six, seven, eight, plus another eight
is 16 plus another two is 18.
MATT: 18 points of damage.
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: All righty.
So the second time, you do stomp down (grunts)
and it ends up pinning it to the ground
and you feel its body give a little bit
and it cracks and its legs skitter for a bit.
It's hurt.
MARISHA: You fuck-- come on, pop pop.
MATT: (laughs) All right.
SAM: Bob bob.
LAURA: Bob bob bob.
MARISHA: The first one towards him, same guy.
MATT: Yep, you're just focusing on the one dude right now--
MARISHA: Yeah, yeah.
26.
MATT: That hits.
You can roll damage.
MARISHA: 16 plus another four, which is 20,
plus another seven, 27, plus one, 28.
MATT: 28 against that one.
All right, before I forget, because I should have
remembered this, make a constitution saving throw for me.
MARISHA: Save?
MATT: Yeah.
SAM: Oh.
MARISHA: Okay.
19?
MATT: 19.
You're fine.
The mushroom next to you releases spores around
and your large self coughs for a second, but you're--
MARISHA: Resistant to poison, too.
MATT: Resistant to poison.
It doesn't have an affect on you.
SAM: Monk shit.
MATT: That's right.
Because no, you're immune to poison, so--
MARISHA: Yeah. I'm good.
MATT: You're like--
MATT: (coughs) Whatever, you're fine.
MARISHA: I'm like, "Oh, my high school days."
MATT: Right.
So as you stomp down--
MARISHA: Thank you.
MATT: That second hit
actively splatters
that one with the final hit.
So you miss it once, you hit it a second time,
you pull up for a third hit as the second hit cracks
and you pull up your foot one final bit
and it's like (squeaks) and you just,
(squishing) scatters and splatters
against the floor nearby.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Nice.
MARISHA: One more?
MATT: This is the Holy Weapon stuff, right?
You still have one more attack.
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: Yeah.
There's one more left right there
that's adjacent to you.
MARISHA: Pop pop!
TRAVIS: Cocked.
SAM: Cock cock?
MARISHA: Fucking titties, 18.
MATT: 18 hits.
TRAVIS: Crack-a-doon.
MARISHA: Six plus 10,
plus 14, plus another for 28.
Or no, 18, 18, 18.
MATT: 18 points of damage on the second hit.
This one tries to skitter away and you reach down
and stomp onto it, pushing it into the ground.
Two of its legs snap off and are
left behind as you pull your foot back.
It's still holding on.
It's really, really hurt.
LAURA: What?
It's just one little bug.
LIAM: Cockroaches, man.
MATT: These things are pretty big.
MARISHA: All right.
MATT: That finishes your turn, Beau?
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: Fjord, you're up.
TRAVIS: I will, (clears throat) (clicks tongue)
I will send an Eldritch Blast towards the one
that Beau was trying to finish off.
MATT: Go for it. One single blast towards that.
TRAVIS: That is a 20 to hit.
MATT: 20 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.
TRAVIS: That is nine points of force damage.
MATT: Nine points of force damage.
As it tries to pull away and climb the tree
away from Beauregard, wounded, with its remaining legs,
as it skitters up the side, you aim
and throw the Eldritch Blast.
It slams into it and cracks it open in two sides.
It's like (sliding noise) slides down the tree, dead.
You have a second blast to throw.
TRAVIS: Sneak a peek.
I don't think I can see that one up on the ledge
from line of sight.
MATT: Right there?
TRAVIS: Yeah.
LAURA: There's one in front of you, Fjord.
MATT: You can see these two right here.
There's one under here--
TRAVIS: Oh, there's one right in front--
MATT: And one up top there. Yep.
TRAVIS: I can't see it.
Can I try and shoot the one that's right in front of me?
MATT: Yeah, go for it. It's right there (boof).
TRAVIS: Natural 20.
ALL: Yeah!
MATT: Oh, there you go.
TRAVIS: Hot dog, bitches.
Eight, (hums) 12.
Now, do I re-roll?
Do I have a savage thingy?
(humming)
Score a critical hit, one, roll one
additional dice an additional time.
So that's 12.
So 16 points of damage.
MATT: 16 points of damage to this one?
TRAVIS: Yep.
MATT: This one had,
was this one previously hurt, there?
LAURA: I don't think so.
MATT: I don't think that one had yet. So 16 points on that.
All right. So as you blast that one
with the Eldritch Blast overtop,
it impacts, leaving this harsh burn mark
on its top side, but it's still standing.
TRAVIS: Okay, that's my turn.
MATT: All right, now it's their turn.
LAURA: ♪ He's still standing, ♪
♪ and he takes 4d8 of damage. ♪
TALIESIN: Yeah, all the ones within the circle take damage.
MATT: Yeah, let me first see what they do.
TALIESIN: Once they're in the circle, they are half speed.
MATT: Right. So he would only get to there, then.
Bad for you, Caduceus.
TALIESIN: Eh.
MATT: I'm just adjusting that properly.
TRAVIS: Hm.
MATT: There we go.
This one here's going to skitter up
into the range, this one's going to (skittering)--
SAM: Oh boy.
MATT: Move here next to Beauregard.
This one here is going to also focus on Beauregard.
LAURA: (groaning)
MATT: You're the big target.
MARISHA: Yeah, I know, it's fine.
MATT: So the one going against
Caleb, who Caleb doesn't see yet
is kind of blocking behind the mushrooms there.
MARISHA: Are you going to [inaudible], dude?
LIAM: Yep.
MATT: That is a 16 to hit?
LIAM: Shield.
MATT: All right,
shield's up a second time.
And a 20 to hit.
LIAM: Hits.
MATT: Just hits?
LIAM: Just hits.
MATT: Ugh. All right, so the first one,
as you hear it coming up
from behind you, you spin around and put the shield up.
It tries to bite towards you, it gets pushed off.
Spins around and then rakes across with its claws
and still manages to impact you.
You take 14 points of slashing damage.
LAURA: Are you still up?
LIAM: Yeah.
SAM: Oh!
MATT: Oh shit.
This one here is going to--
TALIESIN: Take damage first, I would assume.
MATT: Yes, it does.
So the wisdom saves on this are--
All three of those.
That one does not get hit, though.
So roll damage.
SAM: We bought them, but I don't
think we ever passed them out.
LAURA: 13.
MATT: 13?
All righty. So for that one there.
16?
LAURA: Failed.
SAM: Oh, how did that get over there?
MATT: That one there?
SAM: Oh.
No, you had them all and you never passed them out.
MATT: That one there.
Rolled low as well.
So all three of them take 13 damage.
They rush in and just get blasted immediately
and pierced by dozens of quick-moving
unicorn hamsters going (squeaks).
LAURA: (high pitched whinnying)
MATT: Leaving these puncture marks in their outer armor.
LAURA: What about the one right next to us
that started its turn in there?
MATT: Yeah, they all, all of them took
the damage, all three of these.
This guy did not and that guy did not.
LAURA: That guy's still standing?
Shit.
SAM: ♪ He's still standing. ♪
MATT: So the one that just entered this space is going to
go ahead and attempt to shoot out its acid fun times.
That's going to be-- I need Caduceus, Fjord, and Jester
to go ahead and make dexterity saving throws for me, please.
LAURA: Are we at disadvantage because we're restrained?
TALIESIN: I'm not.
LAURA: Am I at disadvantage
because I'm restrained?
MATT: You are, yes.
TRAVIS: Four.
MATT: 17 points of acid damage
and you are restrained.
SAM: Oh no.
MATT: All righty, Jester?
LAURA: Seven.
MATT: 17 points of acid damage
and you're restrained.
SAM: Oh noes.
TALIESIN: 15.
MATT: 15.
You take eight points of acid damage
and you are not restrained.
SAM: Are you double restrained right now?
LAURA: I think you're just restrained.
TALIESIN: I have to make a concentration check,
correct?
MATT: You do.
both of you do.
TALIESIN: Is it concentration?
Yeah.
MATT: Concentration checks.
LAURA: At disadvantage or just a concentration--
TALIESIN: Five. No wait, wait.
Six.
MATT: Six? Holy Weapon fails.
TALIESIN: Fuck, man.
MATT: Beauregard, your--
TALIESIN: That was terrible.
MATT: -- fists suddenly fade
from divine energy as the acid spray breaks
Caduceus' concentration.
MARISHA: Fucking fuck--
LIAM: Do I need a concentration check myself?
Because I got hit, too, and I've got Enlarge up on Beau.
MATT: That's true.
SAM: Oh no.
MARISHA: No, I like being big.
LIAM: It's all right, I'm pretty good--
SAM: ♪ I like big Beaus and I cannot lie. ♪
LIAM: Advantage for me. That's a 19 and one.
19 plus my proficiency.
MARISHA: Yeah, that's a big--
MATT: You're fine, you're fine.
MARISHA: That's good.
LAURA: Six.
MATT: Six?
And the unicorns fade as well.
Some bad saves there, guys, I'm sorry.
SAM: You're not sorry.
MATT: No, I'm not.
(laughter)
All righty.
SAM: How many more are there?
MATT: That fading. You now have one over here
that's attacking you, Jester,
on the opposite side, it's rushing up.
TRAVIS: Four, five, six.
MATT: Natural one.
Oh, but you're restrained so it has advantage.
SAM: Oh no.
MATT: Ooh, that's better.
24 to hit.
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: The second hit is going to be
20 to hit.
LAURA: Yep.
MATT: All right, so first it bites out towards you,
grasping onto your body with its jaws and bites down.
You take 12 points of piercing damage
and eight points of acid damage,
so a total of 20 points of damage.
Its claws then swing out towards you and,
oh, double ones, seven points of slashing damage.
As it's bitten on to you, it begins grinding towards you
but your shield's up in front and you push it off.
The one on the other side is going to attack you, Fjord.
You are restrained so it also has
advantage on its attack rolls.
The bite towards you is going
to be, that's not great either,
14 to hit?
TRAVIS: That does not hit.
MATT: You manage to push it away with your shield.
It's going to attempt to go at
you with its claws for 14 again.
TRAVIS: Misses.
MATT: With advantage.
So both attacks you manage to push it away, kick it back.
It can't even get close enough
to actually get impact on you.
The other two are attacking you, Beauregard.
MARISHA: Uh-huh.
MATT: Actually,
because you're big, that one's going to spray you.
It's going to be that way, so it's not going to get anybody.
I need you to make a dexterity saving throw, please.
MARISHA: Natural 20.
ALL: Yeah.
MATT: All right.
So you only take nine points of acid damage
and you are not restrained.
MARISHA: Cool.
MATT: The other one's going to attack you twice.
MATT: That's going to be 16--
MARISHA: Miss.
MATT: And 18.
MATT: Foof!
That one leaps at you and you just
bat it onto the ground and it swoops up again
to strike towards you and you just put your foot out
and keep it at bay and kick it back.
Their turn's over.
Yasha, you're up. Nott, you're on deck.
ASHLEY: Okay, so since I was not attacked,
I have to rage again?
Right?
MATT: Since you weren't attacked,
you do have to.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: You didn't, but you attacked last round.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
MATT: It's either attack or be attacked,
so you're fine, you're still raging.
ASHLEY: Okay.
LAURA: Yeah yeah yeah yeah--
ASHLEY: Okay, so I'm going to attack
this one right here with my Skingorger.
MATT: If you need me to move any of these tree tops,
I can do that for you, too.
TRAVIS: No, no, it's good, we're mobile
Kill it.
ASHLEY: Wait, do I have advantage because of Fjord?
MATT: Technically, against that one,
you do have it flanked, so yes, you do--
ASHLEY: Well actually, that might actually--
TALIESIN: Mm-hmm.
ASHLEY: That hits.
16. Let me just see if I can get a 20.
No, okay.
MATT: All right, 16 hits.
Go ahead and roll damage.
ASHLEY: Okay, I'll keep that.
24.
MATT: 24 points of damage on your first strike.
That one, you just give one big golf swing, slice it,
and send it flying across the other side of the jungle
where you see it vanish behind a rock
and then squeak out the last of its life.
ASHLEY: Okay, second attack, can I actually try to
pull Jester out of her restrain?
Kind of help her out of the wax
or whatever is going on?
MATT: Out of the wax?
Sure, I'll allow it.
It's like a shove attack to try and push her past it.
ASHLEY: Okay.
Would that be like a,
that's good.
MATT: You move in.
Go ahead and make an athletics check.
ASHLEY: 25.
MATT: Sorry, a strength saving throw.
My bad.
ASHLEY: Strength--
MATT: Same roll, but just add your strength save to it--
ASHLEY: Okay--
MATT: Which you have advantage
on because you're raging, actually.
ASHLEY: 26.
Okay, I'll roll again.
Yeah, that's better.
TALIESIN: Jesus.
ASHLEY: 28.
MATT: Okay, you do,
you push her one space that way,
shoving her out of the cocoon of wax
that she breaks and stumbles a bit
and catches herself, but she's no longer restrained.
SAM: Yay!
ASHLEY: Okay, go do stuff.
LAURA: Okay.
MATT: All righty.
Finishing Yasha's go. Nott, you're up.
Caleb, you're on deck.
SAM: I will retreat to that tree behind me.
MATT: Right here?
SAM: To your right.
And bonus action, hide behind it.
MATT: All right, go ahead and make your stealth check.
SAM: Terrible, but I have Reliable Talent,
oh wait, I'm poisoned.
MATT: Yes.
Disadvantage attack rolls and ability checks.
So it'd be just a single roll.
SAM: Okay, well I rolled twice.
I'll average them, it came out to a five.
(laughter)
But I still have Reliable Talent, so
it's a 23.
MATT: (laughs) Fucking rogues.
All right, you feel pretty stealthed.
SAM: Okay, then I will use my attack to shoot the one
behind Caleb, which would be at advantage, but is not.
MATT: Just a single roll.
SAM: Single roll.
15.
MATT: 15 misses.
SAM: Ooh, all that action just to--
MATT: I know. You move behind and fire it.
As you do it (blows) whips right over its armor,
ricochets off of its outer shell,
and shatters against the nearby rock.
SAM: You're on your own, kid.
MATT: All right, Nott's done. Caleb, you're up.
Jester, you're on deck.
LIAM: Caleb is gushing blood and barely standing up
and he reaches his hand down into his large pack.
Hand wraps around his transmuter stone
and suddenly, he balloons up, 15 foot tall giant ape,
turns round, and wails the shit out of the bug behind him.
MATT: You got it.
LIAM: First one misses, that is a 11.
MATT: It was an action to cast it?
LIAM: Oh, right.
SAM: Yeah.
LIAM: Yeah, so I'm just a giant ape.
MATT: So you're a giant ape.
LIAM: I will just turn around and yell at it.
MATT: All right. (roars)
You just shout at the creature.
It withdraws a bit, just not noticing
the sort of large array of angry
actions towards it.
Of angry.
SAM: On my turn, I wanted to shout out to Caleb:
Caleb, Dwarven Forge is launching
their Twitch channel on February 18th.
MATT: Goddamn it.
SAM: Check it out at
twitch.tv/DwarvenForgeLive.
Okay.
LAURA: Woo!
(laughter)
LIAM: (panting)
MATT: All right, finishing Caleb's go.
Jester, you're up. Caduceus, you're on deck.
LIAM: All right, nobody worry about me.
LAURA: Okay.
Having watched, I--
TRAVIS: That changed what you were going to do?
LAURA: Yep. (laughs)
That altered my plan.
TALIESIN: Yep, mine too.
LAURA: Okay. Fuck me running.
LIAM: That's hard.
LAURA: (sighs) I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
That just changed what I was planning on doing.
Fuck it.
Okay, I'm going to
clap my hands together and go:
All right, let's make this fun.
And I'm going to Polymorph myself into
a giant blue mammoth.
MARISHA: Ooh!
SAM: All right.
TRAVIS: Shit.
SAM: And there is one.
(laughter)
(booming)
LIAM: This just turned into a Godzilla film.
LAURA: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Fjord's right in the butt.
TRAVIS: Peter Jackson over here!
MATT: As you (growls) into the forest space,
Yasha, you see the shadow grow over you
after Jester shouts out and you turn around
and you're looking right at a mammoth asshole.
(laughter)
Just right there.
TALIESIN: That's a mean thing to say about Jester.
TRAVIS: ♪ Black hole sun. ♪
SAM: ♪ Won't you come? ♪
LIAM: And it's on a pachyderm.
MATT: Yeah, yeah.
MARISHA: Oh. (groans)
MATT: Boom, well done.
All righty, so that--
LAURA: That's my action.
MATT: Action to cast it.
LAURA: Yeah, so as a movement,
I'm going to move forward and turn around.
MATT: This way?
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: All right.
(stomping) and then turn around.
LAURA: Like, I don't want to be next to the mushroom,
I want to be a little bit further away from it.
MATT: But you're staying engaged with that guy there?
LAURA: Yeah.
ASHLEY: I slap her ass
on the way over.
MATT: All righty.
(slapping)
(trumpets) Heavy sound of a trumpeting
in the middle of the jungle.
LIAM: (mouth trumpet)
MATT: All right, that finishes Jester's turn.
Caduceus, you're up.
TRAVIS: There it is.
LAURA: That's better than--
TALIESIN: I am restrained.
MATT: You are.
Oh no,
you are not restrained.
TALIESIN: I'm not restrained anymore.
MATT: Because you made your save.
TALIESIN: Did I make my save?
MATT: I thought you rolled a natural.
TALIESIN: I did make my save.
Jesus, I keep forgetting.
All right, am I in melee with anybody?
MATT: You are in melee with one of them.
TALIESIN: Okay, I'm going to hit that one
with the Sacred Flame.
MATT: All righty.
The same, oh this is a different one.
TALIESIN: This is a different one.
MATT: And it's-- ooh, it's a fail.
TALIESIN: Oh yay.
MATT: That's a nine.
TALIESIN: That's nice.
MATT: Go ahead and roll damage on that.
TALIESIN: That's a--
That's better, that's better, okay.
That's 20 points of radiant damage.
MATT: 20 points of radiant damage.
It flares up, it burns across,
and its outer shell is now turned black
and elements of it have cracked open
from the immediate radiant heat.
But it's still standing, though very, very hurt.
TALIESIN: Last chance, all right.
MATT: Finishes your go?
TALIESIN: Yeah, I ain't going nowhere.
MATT: Top of the round.
Beauregard, you're up.
MARISHA: (roars) It's a kaiju fight
and I'm going to stomp on that one.
LIAM: No, you are small now.
MARISHA: Over there.
LAURA: You're small now.
MARISHA: No, I'm small?
LIAM: Because I'm big.
MARISHA: Aww, poops.
TRAVIS: But you still walk over, like--
MARISHA: (roaring)
MATT: As this is happening,
Beauregard stomps over to that one,
going (roars) and it's just like,
here comes a normal Beauregard.
You go to stomp and suddenly,
it's much larger than you remember.
(laughter)
MARISHA: My perspective changes.
MATT: So what're you doing?
(laughter)
MARISHA: I'm still going to punt the one that's next to me.
MATT: All righty, go ahead and--
MARISHA: Kicking that one--
ASHLEY: I need a clip of that.
ALL: (roaring)
(laughter)
ASHLEY: Oh, that was too cute.
MARISHA: Okay, punchies, punchies, punting.
Yeah, that's good.
26.
MATT: 26 hits.
MARISHA: Yeah, I'll take that. That's fine.
10 damage on that one.
MATT: 10 damage?
MARISHA: Yep.
He's still alive?
MATT: Still alive.
MARISHA: Second hit.
Yeah, 28.
MATT: That hits.
MARISHA: That's even better, 12.
MATT: 12 points of damage?
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: You walk over
and kick it and then spin around
with your staff to smack it a second time.
It falls on its back and gets up back up.
It's barely standing, its legs are quivering,
but it's still standing.
MARISHA: I just (groans)
and then Flurry of Blows.
I'm going to take my staff and I just (groans)--
MATT: Just repeatedly bludgeon it.
Okay, go ahead and roll.
MARISHA: Goddamn it!
Pop pop!
Okay, there's a 26 and 13.
I don't think the 13 hits.
MATT: 13 does not hit, but the 26--
MARISHA: But the 26!
10 again.
MATT: You just
whack, whack, whack, it's no longer moving,
and whack, whack, whack and you see now
the purple ooze is (squirting)
just coming off on the staff and arcing.
TRAVIS: Oh whoa, nice shooting, Tex!
MARISHA: I just keep going as a little tear
comes out the corner of my eye.
(laughter)
MATT: All right, Beau, you're done. Fjord, you're up.
Unless you want to move, Beau.
You can move still.
MARISHA: No.
MATT: Okay, you're staying there,
just hitting the corpse. You got it.
MARISHA: Yep.
TRAVIS: I'm restrained, yes?
MATT: You are restrained.
TRAVIS: I will bleh-bleh-ba-bleh-bleh-bleh--
SAM: Turn into a giant dinosaur.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: I'll send--
MATT: Sure, why not?
Everyone else is doing it.
LIAM: (screeching)
TRAVIS: I'll send one Eldritch Blast right here
towards the middle one that's here.
MATT: You got it.
TRAVIS: That one.
MATT: Roll for attack.
TRAVIS: Jesus, that's an 18.
MATT: 18 hits.
TRAVIS: Great. (stutters like reversing audio)
10 points of force damage.
MATT: 10 points of force damage to that one?
All righty.
TRAVIS: Is it still up?
MATT: Still up, that one hasn't been touched yet.
TRAVIS: Oh great.
MATT: But you've just blasted it,
it's now taken some hit.
It's still looking good, but it's hurt.
TRAVIS: I'll send another one that way.
(groans) Less good, 13 points.
MATT: 13 misses.
MARISHA: Pooper.
MATT: Now being hit once, it turns towards you
and as you release the second blast,
it skitters by the mushroom and the ground bursts
with dust and dirt where it no longer stands.
Then crawls back in the space it once was.
TRAVIS: With my bonus action--
I don't think I can cast Hex
after I've done two attacks, right?
MATT: You can because Eldritch Blast is a--
TRAVIS: It's a cantrip.
MATT: It's a cantrip,
so you can cast Hex if you want.
TRAVIS: Yeah, I'll cast Hex on that guy that ran away
that I missed.
MATT: You got it.
That guy is Hexed.
All right.
TALIESIN: Top of the round already?
MATT: That finishes your turn?
TRAVIS: Yes.
MATT: All right, now it's their turn.
(insect skittering)
SAM: I look to the top of the mammoth
where there's a tiny
Sprinkle just hanging on.
(laughter)
MATT: This one here, it was going to go for Caduceus,
but then a giant mammoth came and it's...
LAURA: It's going to attack the mammoth?
SAM: Boy oh boy.
They don't have a lot of good options.
MATT: Nope, that one's going to flee.
TALIESIN: I'm going to take a shot at it
as it leaves.
LAURA: It's going to flee!?
MATT: Yeah.
LAURA: Do I also get to
take a shot at it as it leaves?
MATT: You do.
It's going to go ahead and run past all three of you.
TALIESIN: Does Sacred Flame count as--
since I'm a battle mage, does Sacred Flame count as a--
MATT: If you're a War Caster--
TALIESIN: I'm War Caster.
MATT: I believe that allows you to do cantrip
as a--
LAURA: 26.
TALIESIN: I'll do Sacred Flame on him
as he runs.
LAURA: Dead.
TALIESIN: Oh, never mind,
you go first.
MATT: 26 hits.
Go ahead and roll damage.
TRAVIS: 26.
MATT: That hits as well.
ASHLEY: Do we all-- we all get a hit, yeah?
TALIESIN: I'm holding to see where it goes.
MATT: Well, first it's Jester.
TALIESIN: Yeah.
LAURA: Hold on, hold on--
TALIESIN: Jester may just fry the thing.
ASHLEY: Get it, get it.
LAURA: Uh.
plus 7.
MATT: 15?
LAURA: Plus seven.
MATT: Plus seven.
It spins around and begins to skitter away
and you just (slam) and before anything
gets to the rest of you, it is scattered
across the floor of the jungle there.
This one here is going to continue to attack the gorilla,
which it seems a little less intimidated by.
Both attacks against it are a 16 and a 17.
LIAM: To hit the--
MATT: To hit you.
LIAM: Mein affe?
Well, they were-- yes, they both hit.
MATT: All right. The first one does
five points of piercing damage
and six points of acid damage, so 11 total.
LIAM: Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
MATT: And then the second attack does 14 points
of slashing damage.
LIAM: Okay.
MATT: All right.
That finishes that one's go and there is one
attacking Beau and one attacking Fjord that it got Hexed by.
The one attacking Beauregard.
MARISHA: Hit me.
MATT: It's going to be a 14.
MARISHA: Miss.
MATT: Second attack is a natural one.
You just, (whipping noises) just completely
dodge around it. It can't even get near you.
TRAVIS: Dodge the lobster.
MATT: The other one is attacking you twice.
You are restrained still, Fjord,
so it gets advantage on these strikes.
TRAVIS: It does.
MATT: Oof, that's going to be a 24.
TRAVIS: That hits.
MATT: And a natural 20.
TALIESIN: Countered.
MARISHA: Oh jeez.
MATT: Countered
because you can do that.
TRAVIS: Thank you--
MATT: No-- yes you can, because you didn't
spend your reaction doing that.
TALIESIN: (New Jersey accent) That's why you don't go.
That's why you maintain some discipline.
(laughter)
SAM: (same accent) Maintain some discipline.
LAURA: (same accent) Maintain some discipline.
ASHLEY: (same accent) That's why
you maintain some discipline.
MATT: It's important, guys, to have some discipline.
TRAVIS: (New Jersey accent) Don't go outside with wet hair.
MATT: All right, the first bite attack against you,
Fjord, that's going to be--
SAM: (New Jersey accent) Always wear your rubbers.
MATT: Six, 13 points of damage total.
TRAVIS: Okay.
MATT: The second attack, oof, is
15 points of slashing damage.
TRAVIS: Wow, okay. (sniffs)
MATT: So I think a total of 31 or something like that.
TRAVIS: Oh, and on both of those because the sword
does some shit--
MATT: Yep.
TRAVIS: It is a-- dealing-- wow, really?
I got to remember that more often,
I think I've been forgetting that.
MARISHA: Oh good!
TRAVIS: Eight.
14 points of radiant damage.
MARISHA: Ooh yeah.
MATT: 14 points of radiant damage?
TRAVIS: Yeah--
MATT: Nice.
(shattering sounds) It just, the light sprays from it.
It's looking hurt.
All righty, that finishes their turn.
Yasha, you're up.
ASHLEY: Okay.
All right, I'm going to try and make my way
to wherever the nearest one is.
MATT: There's one with the gorilla here
and then there's the one that's hexed by Fjord,
the one that's fighting Beau.
ASHLEY: Okay, let's go to, let's go to the one by Caleb.
MATT: One by Caleb?
ASHLEY: Even though I'm sure the gorilla has got it.
MATT: You push through the bush
and rush up, blade in the air.
Go ahead and make your attacks.
SAM: Yasha pushes through the bush.
LAURA: (cackles)
ASHLEY: Natural 20.
MATT: Yeah, that'll do.
TRAVIS: Natural 20?
(cheering)
SAM: Counter.
ASHLEY: Okay.
(laughter)
ASHLEY: Okay, so,
six--
MATT: You can reroll--
ASHLEY: Savage Attacker so I'm going to--
MATT: Yeah, because it looks like two ones--
ASHLEY: Yeah.
MATT: The same!
ASHLEY: I rolled exactly the same.
MATT: The exact same.
ASHLEY: Okay, so--
MARISHA: C'mon, checkers.
ASHLEY: Well, 18.
MATT: 18 plus your
brutal critical, which--
TRAVIS: You re-roll all your damage--
MATT: Well, it's not re-roll.
This is, you get additional.
LAURA: D12?
MATT: Which, at this level--
ASHLEY: You can roll one additional weapon damage die
when determining the extra damage
for a critical hit with a melee attack.
MATT: So roll an additional d6 for that.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: So 18 plus?
ASHLEY: Two.
MATT: 20 points of damage to that.
TALIESIN: Do you double that die, too?
TRAVIS: No.
LAURA: No.
TALIESIN: Okay.
MATT: All right, so 20 points on the first strike.
You rush up and slam! The blade sticks into it
and is jammed in it and you hear it going
(insect chitter) trying to pull away,
but it's stuck in there.
Go ahead and roll your second attack.
ASHLEY: Okay. Ugh, cocked.
SAM: Always.
ASHLEY: Cocked again, sorry.
LAURA: Oh my god.
ASHLEY: Sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry!
Oh, this is not going to hit.
That's 11.
MATT: 11?
ASHLEY: Uh huh.
MATT: No, that's not going to hit.
(laughter)
MATT: Don't forget, you have Reckless Attack,
so if you're not worried about being attacked back--
ASHLEY: Oh shit! I always forget about that.
Can I do it or should I wait 'til the next time--
MATT: I'll let you do it--
ASHLEY: I'll wait 'til the next time.
MATT: I'll let you do it, I'll let you do it, it's fine.
ASHLEY: Okay, okay, okay.
MATT: But keep that in mind, keep that in mind.
That's one of the big tools of the barbarian.
ASHLEY: Fucking shit.
SAM: Cocked.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: There you go.
SAM: This dice.
ASHLEY: I know! I'm sorry, I like it.
TALIESIN: That one die.
I know you love that die.
ASHLEY: 24.
MATT: That does hit.
Go ahead and roll damage.
ASHLEY: Okay.
(laughter)
SAM: Takes six rolls to get one good one.
TALIESIN: Put a metal plate in there so it falls--
ASHLEY: 12 points of damage.
MATT: 12 points of damage.
SAM: Yay!
MATT: All right, you pull the blade out and the jagged part
of the Skingorger tears through its body,
scattering some of its core across the rock.
It's still standing, but it's hurt
real badly.
ASHLEY: Fuck you!
MATT: Nott, you're up. Caleb, you're on deck.
SAM: I'm up? I get more turns?
MATT: You do.
SAM: I'm going to-- where's that one that Yasha was just--
TALIESIN: Right there.
SAM: In front of the grape ape?
MATT: Yep.
LIAM: Which tree is Nott in?
SAM: I'm behind, I'm so stealthy you can't see me.
TALIESIN: I love this forest--
LAURA: Oh wow, yeah--
TALIESIN: It's just so hard to see through, it's great.
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: It makes me happy.
SAM: I'm going to stealthily try to poach
the one that Yasha was just hitting.
TRAVIS: You killed the mammoth!
LAURA: No!
TALIESIN: Don't spoil the illusion.
LIAM: (trumpeting)
MATT: I like moving the pieces, sorry.
SAM: Actually, I fired at this one last time
from the same position.
MATT: You did.
SAM: Do I have to re-hide?
MATT: If you want to have non-disadvantage--
SAM: I will bonus action, re-hide.
MATT: All right, so you'll have to move.
There's enough of a bush here that you could--
LIAM: Do you have to hide if I'm adjacent?
LAURA: That is enough of a bush.
SAM: Because I have a-- yes, I do.
Because I'm at disadvantage on these attacks.
MATT: That's right.
LIAM: But you get advantage if your buddy--
SAM: No, you don't get advantage,
you get sneak attack damage
unless you are rolling at a disadvantage.
MATT: Disadvantage does not give you sneak attack.
SAM: Yeah. So this is a single, straight roll.
Oh! Fucking had to roll one.
LAURA: Fucking hell!
(laughter)
MATT: So you miss and you damage yourself.
SAM: Oh, that's right!
LAURA: Oh no, Nott!
SAM: That's right.
What does the--
what does it do?
LAURA: What did you do?
SAM: What does it do?
What does it say?
TALIESIN: Schproing!
SAM: When you roll a one, you suffer one D6 piercing damage.
MATT: Go for it.
LAURA: Oh!
SAM: That's a six.
(laughter)
MATT: You rush, hide, dive through in the bush,
turn around and fire and it just goes (impact)--
SAM: (screaming)
MATT: -- back into you. Nott, does that finish your turn?
TRAVIS: You okay there?
SAM: (screaming)
MATT: Caleb, you're up.
MATT: All right, so begin what I was
trying to do before, smash it.
That is a 27 to hit.
MATT: 27 hits.
LIAM: Okay.
That is a
22.
MATT: 22 points of damage.
You squash that thing like the bug it is.
LIAM: For flavor, I'll say he just does it with a palm,
goes (slam), and then just takes the body
and chucks it into the underbrush and I'm going to--
MATT: It sprays part of you, Yasha, and then as
the monkey lifts it, it (raspberries) goes up against
the rest of you and you are just coated in purple.
LIAM: So when he chucks it, he just goes--
ASHLEY: I like it--
MATT: It just (blows)--
ASHLEY: Yep.
LIAM: Then he's going to King Kong over towards the group
40 feet,
look over their shoulders--
MATT: You have to go around this way.
There's not enough room to go--
LIAM: Sure.
MATT: (stomping)
Stomping over there, you crush
that element there and there is one
right next to Beauregard that you can get to.
LIAM: Right. (pants) (ape pounding)
MATT: Go for it.
LIAM: That is a 17 to hit.
17,
17, 24,
30.
MATT: 13?
LIAM: 30.
MATT: 30?
30 hits, yeah, yeah.
LIAM: Oh no, I hit.
30 damage.
MATT: Oh, gotcha.
SAM: Ooh, wow.
TALIESIN: Wow.
MATT: 30 damage.
That one had not been damaged yet
and as you slam down both your fists, you smash into
the ground and its legs go flat for a second.
You pull back, thinking it's probably dead,
and it slowly (cracking) gets back up.
LIAM: (growling)
AMTT: Angry Caleb is angry.
Finishing Caleb's go, Jester, you're up.
Caduceus, you're on deck.
LAURA: Can I get to it?
LAURA: You can push past this tree and try for it.
SAM: Just knock that tree over.
TRAVIS: Fuck that tree.
MATT: Make a strength check for me.
LAURA: Oh, man.
LIAM: (trumpeting)
MATT: Mammoth strength check.
SAM: (lower quality trumpeting)
LAURA: Yeah, 25.
(laughter)
SAM: They had that mammoth toking.
LAURA: Awesome!
(cheering)
MATT: You push over into this space.
LAURA: (roaring)
MATT: Pushing it back.
LIAM: This is a sacred place.
MARISHA: She's fine with it.
MATT: Yep.
The tree just slams, sending all sorts of
loose leaves and dust up into the air.
LAURA: Does that count because it's weirdly--
MATT: Are you attacking the hexed one
or the one that he tried to smash?
LAURA: The one that, oh, is there more than one?
LIAM and MATT: There's two.
LAURA: Oh, shit.
LIAM: The one that I smooshed--
LAURA: Oh, well, I'll do the one--
I'll do the hexed one.
MATT: All right, go for it.
SAM: I'll do the hexed--
MATT: So that attack was?
LAURA: That was 16.
MATT: 16 just hits.
SAM: Ooh, nice.
LAURA: Ooh, close call.
Six
plus nine is 15 plus four is
19 plus seven is 26.
MATT: 26 to that one?
After pushing the tree with your body,
as its cracking down, you splat that one that's hexed.
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: Just turned to mush.
LAURA: Sorry.
MATT: Do you have another attack or just the one?
LAURA: I think it's just the one.
MATT: All righty.
You move over towards the other one,
just trumpet loudly.
You see, in the distance, other movement.
SAM: Oh no.
MARISHA: What the fuck?
MATT: That is scattering further away.
(relieved groans)
They are not enjoying the presence of
a fucking mammoth in the middle of the jungle.
So finishing your go, Jester, that brings us to Caduceus.
TALIESIN: There's one left?
MATT: There's one left.
TALIESIN: Sacred Flame.
Not even going to move, just--
LAURA: It's almost dead.
MATT: That a dexterity save?
TALIESIN: It's a, yeah, I believe so.
MATT: 17. What's your DC?
TALIESIN: 17.
MATT: It just succeeds, I'm sorry.
TALIESIN: Bugger.
MATT: They got a high dex. All right, that finishes your go?
Or are you going to--
TALIESIN: Yeah.
I'm going to sit there being irritated.
MATT: Okay, got it.
Beau, you're up.
MARISHA: Oh.
MATT: There's a giant gorilla to one side
and a wooly mammoth to the other
and one heavily damaged bug in between the two of them.
It's skittering through their legs,
trying to not get smashed and you're just watching this.
MARISHA: Is he the only one?
MATT: Yeah.
MARISHA: The only bug?
MATT: The only bug left.
SAM: Maybe we can befriend it.
LIAM: Is this another bug hunt, sir?
MARISHA: Yeah, I'm just going to dodge the mammoth feet
and the gorilla feet and just once again
take my staff and just like--
MATT: Just Whac-A-Mole it?
MARISHA: Kind of Whac-A-Mole it.
MATT: Go for it.
MARISHA: Yeah, it's fine, pop pop.
LIAM: Shake Weight, Shake Weight.
MARISHA: Shake Weight it.
An 18 for a 28 and a natural 20.
MATT: Go ahead and roll damage.
MARISHA: For the 18?
Yeah, shit, eight.
For the natural 20?
That's okay, 16.
MATT: How do you want to do this?
(cheering)
MARISHA: Oh goodness, what do I do with a bug?
You know, I'm just going to, I'm just going to,
I was churning butter, I'm just going to keep
churning that butter, you know, and just going to--
MARISHA: It's rushing around, it's escaping through
the mammoth's legs and the monkey goes and slams
towards the ground and it just avoids it--
LAURA: Stop, Beau.
MATT: You rush forward
and take the-- yeah, don't, you're--
LIAM: That's okay, that's okay, that's okay.
MATT: Learn from Sam's gif mistakes last campaign.
LAURA: No, stop, stop!
(laughter)
MATT: You watch and wait for a moment and you take your
staff and just pin it to the ground and it can't move.
As it's there, you just lean
your weight into it and something snaps.
It pushes through the armor and it just goes (squeaks)
limp on the ground, no longer moving.
MARISHA: Yeah, it's dead.
TRAVIS: Nice.
(laughter)
MATT: All righty.
SAM: Wow.
TRAVIS: Before I un-restrain myself,
I feel like we should pass these out.
SAM: Yes.
TRAVIS: Who wants a healing potion?
MARISHA: I'll take one.
SAM: I'll take one.
TRAVIS: Okay. Who wants the big one?
SAM: Caleb.
TRAVIS: There you go.
Ah! I'll hold the monkey's for a minute.
TALIESIN: If everybody likes,
I can take 10 minutes and just help everybody out.
Or at least a few of us out.
SAM: Yashies?
ASHLEY: I'm okay.
LAURA: Yeah, I'll--
TALIESIN: I'll--
TALIESIN: You take one.
LAURA: I guess I'll drop my
Polymorph.
SAM: Beau-y?
LAURA: It lasts for an hour.
SAM: Wait, wait, Caleb comes up to-- Capeleb comes up to
the mammoth and just sort of like you're petting a horse
only (pants) and then swings up
and plants himself up on top.
LAURA: You're pretty big.
You're going to ride on top of the mammoth?
MATT: Are you staying a mammoth?
LIAM: (panting)
LAURA: (trumpeting)
No, I drop my form.
SAM: Oh no.
MATT: Okay,
make a dexterity saving throw.
SAM: Insta-death.
TALIESIN: Oh!
LAURA: Ooh.
LIAM: Can I try to plant two feet and not squish?
MATT: If she didn't roll a one, I'd say yes.
So as you leap onto the mammoth, it instantly shrinks,
like instantly (shrinking) and there's a moment,
in a very cartoon physics way, where you're just
suspended about 10 feet in the air before
(crashing) and you, like, "Shit!" and then (slam).
Go ahead and roll 2d6 for me, Caleb.
TRAVIS: Inside the gorilla's erection.
LIAM: Six.
MATT: You take
six points of bludgeoning damage
and are pinned beneath a giant gorilla.
LIAM: (panting)
LAURA: (groaning)
LIAM: Stands up and grabs her by the ankle.
LAURA: Ow!
(laughter)
MARISHA: Capeleb!
LAURA: Caleb!
SAM: Capeleb.
LAURA: Caleb.
MARISHA: Let her go!
LIAM: (groaning)
LAURA: Oh man.
SAM: I'm going to run over to Yasha and--
LAURA: I got to heal.
SAM: Try to get my flask out of her.
LAURA: Okay.
SAM: Going to try to
swipe my flask back.
ASHLEY: You're going to try
to swipe it, you're not even going to,
you're going to try to sneak it?
SAM: I'm going to try to sneak it.
ASHLEY: Okay.
MATT: All right,
go ahead and make a sleight of hand check.
SAM: Disadvantage.
MATT: Make a perception check.
MARISHA: C'mon, Yash.
ASHLEY: Oh boy, oh boy, oh boy.
SAM: Disadvantage.
LAURA: Oh, never mind.
MARISHA: Hey!
What? What?
TALIESIN: I'm doing everyone but you.
ASHLEY: What'd you roll?
SAM: Technically, it's a 23.
MATT: Yeah, with Reliable Talent.
ASHLEY: I rolled a natural 20.
ALL: Oh!
MATT: What's the total on it?
ASHLEY: What's the total? 23.
MARISHA: (gasping)
MATT: Holy shit, you actually catch Nott!
You like, after everyone's taken a moment,
and you're like, the blood's on you
and you're wiping it a bit and you walk over
and you just take, everyone's settling down for a minute
and you feel this tug and you glance behind you
and Nott is pulling the flask--
ASHLEY: I'm just going to slap her without even looking.
MATT: Tsh.
SAM: Ah!
ASHLEY: What are you doing?!
SAM: (yelling)
TALIESIN: 28.
SAM: I couldn't-- I can't
shoot straight without the booze.
I wasn't shooting straight.
ASHLEY: What are you talking about?
You shot just fine.
SAM: No, I missed twice.
LAURA: It's true, I saw her shoot herself in the eyeball.
SAM: I shot myself in the eyeball.
ASHLEY: You gave me this flask.
Do you really want me to keep it or do you want to take it?
SAM: I don't know anymore.
LAURA: Don't take it, Nott.
ASHLEY: I'll hold on to it for, let's--
how about I hold on to it
until we get to Caduceus' destination?
SAM: All right.
TRAVIS: Can I try to un-restrain myself, please?
MATT: Yes. After a moment, you manage to pull free of
the hardened, wax-like cocoon substance.
TRAVIS: There's so much happening right now.
MARISHA: No, don't help him, don't help him.
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Have I done a Prayer of Healing by this point?
MATT: That takes how long to cast?
TALIESIN: 10 minutes.
MATT: 10 minutes?
If you guys are taking 10 minutes here,
then yeah, you can go ahead and cast it.
TALIESIN: Everybody except for Caleb,
because you're still a monkey--
LAURA: Are we going to take a short rest?
TALIESIN: No, just a 10 minute, just to--
You're still a monkey, so I'm not healing you.
MATT: You can take a short rest if you want to.
LAURA: Let's take a short rest.
MARISHA: Yeah, all right.
TALIESIN: Gets 26 points of healing.
MATT: So everyone except for
Caleb, unless you want to drop your monkey form.
Caleb.
LIAM: I'm deciding that now.
MATT: Because either you can keep it--
LIAM: Because I'm fucked up, Caleb is fucked up,
but monkey is not.
TALIESIN: I was going to say.
Because if you drop it, then I'll just--
MATT: How long does the monkey last?
LIAM: Just an hour, so I got to drop it.
MATT: So if you're taking a short rest,
you might as well.
TALIESIN: Yeah, I might as well.
MATT: All right, so you can take the healing.
SAM: Do we all get healing?
TALIESIN: No, we can only use six, so.
ASHLEY: I don't need it.
SAM: I don't need it.
ASHLEY: Yeah.
TALIESIN: Who doesn't need it more?
SAM: I don't need it.
TALIESIN: Oh, he doesn't need it at all, so.
Sam doesn't need it, so.
SAM: The only damage I took was
self-inflicted six points of damage.
MATT: That's true.
Short rest.
TALIESIN: Did Nott handle poison--
MATT: You're still poisoned, yeah.
TALIESIN: Oh, I think I can do something about that, too.
MATT: Okay, so you guys can use your hit die to go ahead
and heal up naturally during the short rest, if you'd like.
TALIESIN: Oh, then, I already did it--
LAURA: I know.
TALIESIN: I don't care.
MATT: You've already cast the spell, it's fine.
TALIESIN: What fixes poison?
MATT: Lesser Restoration.
TALIESIN: I'm going to give you a quick Lesser Restoration.
Anybody else poisoned?
MATT: I don't think so. The only other person who was
in danger of it is immune because monks.
TALIESIN: So no more poison.
SAM: Thank you.
TALIESIN: Oh, it's no problem, you're welcome.
MATT: All right.
TRAVIS: I love this map. Can we build a house here?
MATT: If you want to.
TRAVIS: Just a latticework of bridges.
Swiss Family Robinson--
MATT: So the creatures are scattered about.
Broken, sliced, pulled apart,
the purple ichor scattered across the jungle floor.
The large broken tree that's now on its side,
the dust settled that was kicked up from its impact.
TALIESIN: Well, that was a valuable lesson.
SAM: What was that lesson?
TALIESIN: Don't poke big things
if you don't know what they are.
TRAVIS: I don't know if I've learned that lesson.
TALIESIN: I know.
TRAVIS: Which, in the heyday,
what direction were we heading?
TALIESIN: That way.
That way.
(laughter)
LIAM: Caleb remembers.
MATT: Yeah, you guys know the direction you were traveling.
TRAVIS: Do we need to rest for a moment?
Are we good to--
MATT: You just took a short rest.
So about an hour of downtime to--
MARISHA: Nailed it.
TRAVIS: Thank you.
MATT: Gathering your shit.
Is there anything you want to do during the short rest?
LAURA: I will carve a little dick into the tree
that I knocked over as a mammoth.
MATT: You got it.
This one equal, if not better, than the one
you left earlier in the jungle.
You're getting good at these dicks.
LAURA: You know.
LIAM: Caleb'll use Arcane Recovery.
MATT: Okay, so you get your spell back.
All righty.
After taking an hour of downtime
to rest up and sit and
think about whatever the hell you're doing
in the middle of this weird expanse
and these creatures you stumbled past,
what do you guys want to do?
TALIESIN: I'm done meditating, I'm ready to move on.
SAM: We could meditate.
TALIESIN: We just did.
LAURA: We just took, like, an hour, so.
MATT: Can make a meditation part of the short rest that--
MARISHA: Do you want to meditate?
SAM: I'd like to meditate.
LAURA: Oh, that's great.
MARISHA: Yeah, I'll join in a meditation.
MATT: Okay.
SAM: Om.
Om.
MARISHA: Don't, you don't have to do that.
SAM: Om!
MARISHA: No no no, just listen to the environment.
SAM: Okay.
TRAVIS: Let it flow through you.
SAM: Oh.
MARISHA: Yes.
SAM: You're joining us?
TRAVIS: Well, yeah.
SAM: All right.
TRAVIS: (deep breathing)
MATT: So here recovering, sore,
you all slowly make your way through
an impromptu guided meditation for the better part
of an hour in the middle of the jungle
on the outskirts of the Whitedawn Lagoon.
LAURA: I'm just going to dance around while I'm meditating.
MATT: That is a form of meditation for some.
Dance therapy.
LIAM: Frumpkin is
picking nits out of Fjord's hair as he meditates.
MATT: You got it.
LIAM: All the nits, so many nits.
MATT: It's a lot of nits.
All righty, as the rest is done,
you guys continue in the direction.
TALIESIN: Get up and we move.
MATT: Okay, same,
same order?
MARISHA: Sure.
MATT: As before?
MARISHA: Yeah.
LAURA: Oy vey.
MATT: Caduceus and Fjord at the front,
Beau and was it Caleb?
LAURA: Was that clean dirt insect poop?
MATT: You don't know.
You can inspect the insects or inspect the space around it
if you wanted to try and figure it out.
TRAVIS: Do you want to look inside one of
the opened up pale scorpion things?
Simple biology, just take a look.
LAURA: At their poop?
TRAVIS: Yeah,
just open up the guts, look in the stomach sac.
TALIESIN: They probably have poison sacs.
LAURA: Ooh!
Nott, you should take some of those poison sacs
inside of them.
AM: They do? Okay.
LAURA: Yeah, I'm going to help get those out
because I'm good at medicine.
SAM: Oh, all right.
MATT: Okay.
Go ahead and roll a medicine and a nature check.
LAURA: Both of them?
MATT: Yes.
LAURA: Medicine, 27.
Nature,
12.
MATT: Okay.
You have no idea if these creatures are
indigenous to here or not, they're odd.
The one thing that catches your eye is
their coloration and physicality
doesn't seem to fit this environment.
It doesn't make sense for a creature like this
to live in a dense part of a jungle.
With your medicine check, you do find that
there are actually two glands on the inside of its body,
separate chemicals, that, when combined,
create that caustic, wax-like substance.
Separately, they're just--
TALIESIN: Inert.
MATT: Yeah, inert, nasty, viscous, oil-like liquids.
One's a deep bluish color, the other one is clear.
When they're put together, it becomes
like a white foam that then
burns and solidifies into this cocoon-like wax.
LAURA: I'm going to get them in vials.
MATT: Okay.
You have enough for probably one application.
SAM: It's acute?
MATT: Kind of, yeah,
and when I say, it foams up.
Both of them combined can probably affect--
LAURA: Acidic wax.
MATT: Acidic wax,
you could say, compound, acidic wax compound.
LIAM: That's some good pranking there.
LAURA: Well, I gave it to Nott.
But there's plenty of other ones.
MATT: If you want to try it again.
LAURA: Yeah!
MATT: All right, go ahead and roll another medicine check.
LAURA: That didn't count, that slipped out of my hand.
LIAM: That's kind of what you do with a die.
LAURA: No, but you know what I mean.
It has to be an intentional roll.
20.
MATT: 20?
MARISHA: (laughter)
LAURA: You know what I mean!
MATT: I'll say you just barely manage
to pull another set of these glands
from one of the other corpses
without them accidentally touching
and combining and setting off a reaction.
LAURA: Yeah, yeah.
MATT: A lot of these bodies
have been damaged heavily from the battle
and there's only maybe one or two others
that even are viably intact to withdraw from,
but you barely succeeded in not hurting yourself
in this process.
LAURA: Okay. That's all, I'm done.
MATT: Okay.
TRAVIS: We're off?
TALIESIN: We're off.
MATT: Okay.
TRAVIS: Lead the way.
MATT: You push closer to the center of this jungle region
for the next couple hours or so.
Those patches of wax and discolored fungus
begin to fade as you move on, apparently moving past
the region that nested these creatures at the moment,
but you do occasionally still come across, rarely,
another pile of fresh, clean
moved earth, vibrant red,
standing out against the environment.
Eventually, as the sky begin to turn slightly orange
as the day begins to progress a little later on,
as the hours continue by, you can see
just the faint hint of light refracting off of
a mirror? Water.
And the patches of jungle
and the elements of faint fungus that remain begin to
give way to a clearing
that houses a small lake.
An oasis pool, if you will, of extremely clear water
that's fostering all manner of fish under the surface.
The thin shore is dotted with rocks,
scattered brush atop the rich, red earth that is exposed,
very much like what you encountered before,
but without the heavy roots and jungle undergrowth,
it is just a bright red shore
along the outside of this lake.
Beautiful rock carvings of various animals and creatures
align the edges of this lake
like a statue garden
of all these beautiful beasts and people just,
in this decorative sense, surrounding this lake.
A menagerie of beautiful art
enshrining this space as the Court of Beasts.
Jungle deer, bears, other jungle cats,
massive lizards, all sorts of creatures,
all immortalized in these sculptures.
LAURA: Does it look like they're actually sculptures
or do they look like creatures
that have been turned to stone?
MATT: You can walk up to one if you want to inspect.
Make an investigation check.
LAURA: What a pretty statue.
MATT: Natural one?
It looks like a pretty well-carved statue,
you can't really tell.
But you do, as you guys walk toward the edge of
the treeline here, you can see along the western bank--
which is not entirely on the opposite side,
but a little further away around
the northern curvature of the lakeside--
you can see a few odd, broken, heavy rocks
that push away from the rest of
the smooth edges of the water,
like a hillside with red rock that has emerged.
You can see
scattered slivers of well-carved statues
that sit around an entrance of a cave
like a cathedral entrance with
these statues set to walk through and into.
This raised bank is the mouth of a cavern
that, just beyond where the water is, in the shadow,
descends deep into the earth on that side.
What would you guys like to do?
LAURA: What do we do?
SAM: Is this the place?
TALIESIN: I'm going to touch the water, smell it.
MATT: It's very clear, very clean.
TALIESIN: Well, let's go.
TRAVIS: In the water?
TALIESIN: No.
No, not yet.
We're going to go to the cave.
MARISHA: Not yet?
LAURA: Splash splash splash splash splash splash.
MATT: (laughs) The fish scatter.
LAURA: It's really pretty water, though, hm?
TALIESIN: It's beautiful.
TRAVIS: We could always check the water.
SAM: For traps?
TRAVIS: I could just walk down there and see what's--
TALIESIN: I mean, I'm at the water.
TRAVIS: I actually meant down there.
TALIESIN: I don't think there's anything down there.
MATT: Up to you.
LAURA: Can you see?
Can we see the bottom?
It's real clear.
MATT: Make a perception check.
TALIESIN: I'll join you in that.
MATT: The two of you can do that individually.
TALIESIN: 18.
MATT: That's cocked.
TALIESIN: Fair.
LAURA: 17.
MATT: Okay.
It is very clear.
You can't make out a lot of detail
with just the light that's refracting off the surface,
but you can see there is a beautiful little forest of
lake plants and just little life ecosystems beneath,
where all the fish swim through and underneath.
There's no structure or designs of anything
under there that catches your attention,
if that's what you're looking for,
just a beautiful, clear lake.
Maybe about 150,
200 feet across.
TALIESIN: Welcome to the Court of Beasts.
Let's head to the cave.
TRAVIS: All right, sure.
LIAM: I'll say just for the heck of it,
while they were doing that inspection,
that Caleb hit himself with some Fortune's Favor.
MATT: Okay, go for it.
TRAVIS: As we're walking,
these statues of these beasts,
do they have a base or platform or do they
seem to be perfectly carved animals on the earth?
MATT: I mean, some of them are
sunken in a bit to the ground,
but they don't have a set base or a solid platform or dais,
they're just sculptures set in the earth.
TRAVIS: Give it a look.
See if they're actually sculptures.
MARISHA: I think that's a good call.
MATT: Make an investigation check.
MARISHA: You helping me out?
TRAVIS: Yep.
MARISHA: All right.
LAURA: Oh, I already checked it out, they're fine.
MATT: Yeah.
I will say because she's already checked independently,
this will be independent check as opposed to an aided one.
So just roll one.
LIAM: Start over.
MARISHA: 10.
MATT: 10.
MARISHA: Great.
MATT: I mean, they're statues, they're well carved.
As you do walk along, though, you do see
broken bits of them, you see parts.
Some of them are older, apparently,
that have been chipped off.
You see a broken hand or a head of a creature that's cracked
and partially sunken into some of the fresh earth.
You begin to see the beast idols
intertwined now with carved idols of humanoid people
the further you get to the cave.
You see some are adorned in travel attire,
some in battle attire, some are captured
in a moment of heroic struggle, some are visibly worn,
many are kept well enough to
appear polished and new, it's a variety.
LIAM: One minor question. You said all different kinds of
animals that we'd recognize mixed in.
Are there any that are strange, out of the ordinary
type animals we've never seen before?
MATT: None that are as alien as the ones that you
currently encountered or recently encountered.
A lot of them are--
a lot of them wouldn't be jungle beasts, necessarily.
You see a large elk and you see one across the way
that looks like a giant horned oxen
that you've never seen in your life.
That wouldn't be in a jungle.
MATT: But it is a menagerie.
TRAVIS: Caduceus, as we're walking over to the cave,
do you mind if I swim alongside you?
TALIESIN: Be careful not to drink the water.
TRAVIS: Right, sure.
SAM: Why? Do you think--
TALIESIN: Oh.
Because it's for the beasts.
TRAVIS: Oh, no, that was entirely too ominous.
I don't need to swim, it's okay.
(laughter)
Never mind.
TALIESIN: Seemed so happy to poke the--
TRAVIS: Do you think that perhaps these animals
drank of the water and turned to stone?
TALIESIN: I don't know.
SAM: Do you want to find out?
TALIESIN: I don't think so.
TRAVIS: Not particularly.
SAM: No, I mean, like--
TALIESIN: I don't think so.
SAM: I've got some stuff that I could try to use.
TRAVIS: What do you mean?
SAM: I bought these vials.
Willowshade oil.
LAURA: What's it do?
SAM: You can un-petrify someone.
TALIESIN: (chuckling)
SAM: Oh, but maybe not.
(laughter)
TRAVIS: What does the surgeon general's warning label say?
SAM: I forgot.
It has to-- it's been petrified for the last minute.
It has to be recently petrified.
MATT: It's got to be a rapid application.
SAM: Never mind.
TRAVIS: It's all right.
LAURA: Plus, they're not petrified.
These things are just really cool statues.
SAM: You're right.
TALIESIN: There's nothing--
There's no statues poised in fear or anything or--
MATT: There's a couple.
MARISHA: Oh.
MATT: The further you walk, you see a few more.
And that ominous sense begins to come over you
as you begin to see some of these
arrayed in positions of people trying to
possibly defend themselves as groups.
MARISHA: Wait, people?
LAURA: Yeah, there are people now.
MATT: A handful of people you've started to find
and they're getting more and more numerous
the closer to the cave you get.
TRAVIS: I don't know that this would ever come in handy,
but I'm going to cast
Water Breathing on everyone in the party
for 24 hours.
MATT: Okay.
TRAVIS: So you can all breathe underwater
just in case you find the need to
dive under the waves of the lake.
MARISHA: So we're in the cave.
MATT: You're not in the cave,
you're walking towards it along the northern bank
to the western side--
TALIESIN: This is getting odd.
SAM: Do you have to go through the water?
LAURA: No.
SAM: Okay.
TRAVIS: Just in case it's a visual thing
and water can help refract, I don't know.
TALIESIN: I want to start inspecting these people.
MATT: Make a perception check.
TALIESIN: I am going to aid myself
because this is giving me the heebie jeebies.
Ooh, 29.
MATT: 29.
TALIESIN: Actually, it's--
SAM: 72.
TALIESIN: 30.
MATT: Okay.
You begin glancing past
and what first you thought were just statues,
you begin to look towards some of these people
in terms of the faces, the expressions,
beautifully captured, these moments of intensity,
moments of anger, moments of fear,
it's a wide variety of emotions,
but they're intricately carved.
There's one off towards the shore that you look over,
right near the water's edge, you see two taller figures
that strike a familiar sight,
both firbolg captured in an emotional moment of fear.
The pair, female and older, they indeed resemble
your mother, Constance, and your aunt, Corrin.
About 15 feet from them, another pair of figures
captured in stone resemble your sister, Calliope,
her face resolute and her body fallen
at an odd, stiff angle, while the other
resembles your father, Cornelius,
seeming to try and pull her from the dirt
like a heavy chunk of a tree, he himself captured in stone.
LIAM: Caduceus?
TALIESIN: We have to be very careful.
This is,
these are my people.
LAURA: Do you, is this, they were petrified?
TALIESIN: Let's back up, let's--
MARISHA: What do you mean?
TALIESIN: I'm going to slowly start pushing everyone
back into the treeline.
MATT: Okay.
As you take one step back and give everyone the point,
you hear from the treeline (heavy footfalls).
Heavy sounds, earthy impacts of dirt
begin to find your ears.
You glance towards the lifted shore
where the treeline stands and you see
some deranged beast
of some kind emerging from the shadowy edge.
The massive, swollen bull-like creature
begins to pick up speed towards you, its thundering hooves,
its body a slightly-pulling tapestry
of metallic plates where large spines
of darkened metal emerge between them,
its eyes glowing angry as between where
its limbs meet its body, little plumes of green fume
emerge and drift around it
as it begins to rush towards you.
And that's where we're going to pick up next week.
(groaning)
SAM: Your family?
MARISHA: Oh shit.
TALIESIN: It's not everybody, but it's a lot.
TRAVIS: Does Greater Restoration--
LAURA: Greater Restoration undoes petrification.
MATT: It does.
TRAVIS: To how many people?
MATT and MARISHA: To one.
MARISHA: One at a time.
MARISHA: Yeah.
TRAVIS: Cool.
SAM: Oh no.
LAURA: Well, we have to--
TALIESIN: And that burns a big spell.
MARISHA: 5th-level, right?
TRAVIS: And then we have to preserve the statues, right?
TALIESIN: We just have to fight somewhere else than here.
TRAVIS: Yeah.
TALIESIN: How fast can we--
well, we'll find out how--
MARISHA: Is this like a minotaur? What is it?
MATT: It is a massive-looking
bull creature, larger than any bull you've ever seen,
its body swollen and muscular, metal-plated,
in a colossus-type way,
but jagged and not meeting properly
and these giant spines protruding from it.
LAURA: So the metal plates are not natural on it?
I guess we'll find out--
MATT: You don't know.
MARISHA: Is it quadrupedal or bipedal?
MATT: Quadrupedal.
LAURA: Oh my gosh.
MATT: Rushing towards you immediately at about maybe
60 or so feet from you.
LIAM: It has to stand up.
MATT: So we'll pick up from there next week.
LAURA: How far from the shore are we?
MATT: We'll figure that out next week.
LAURA: (yelling)
MATT: You guys are pretty close to the shore
and just began to move away when you heard this
and turned and saw it, so.
MARISHA: But we can't destroy them.
The people.
SAM: Sorry, you okay?
LAURA: Yeah.
MATT: Oh yeah, it'd be real bad to let this thing
get near any of these, wouldn't it?
TRAVIS: Navy SEAL that shit.
LIAM: Put them back together.
SAM: Complicated battle ahead.What a reason to tune in!
(laughter)
TALIESIN: Motherfucker.
MATT: There's a reason they hadn't
gotten back to you or been home in a while.
LAURA: Buddy. Caduceus.
TALIESIN: I know, I know.
MATT: I'm sorry, buddy.
ASHLEY: You knew something was going on.
TALIESIN: I knew something was going on.
TRAVIS: Okay. (grunts)
MATT: All right!
Well, we'll pick this up next Thursday.
ASHLEY: Wowzers.
MATT: In the meantime, have a wonderful week, guys.
Stay tuned tomorrow at 7:00pm on our Twitch channel
to watch live our Monsterhearts one-shot
with these two lovely people
with two other very lovely people.
TALIESIN: It was so fun.
MARISHA: So angsty.
MATT: So angsty, so--
MARISHA: So moody.
MATT: So teen awkward, horny--
TALIESIN: We're so awkward--
MATT: It's going to be hilarious.
MARISHA: Get some chocolates, get a pizza.
Curl up on the couch.
Transport yourself back to the '90s.
It'll be great.
MATT: Yeah.
MARISHA: Yeah.
MATT: But, nevertheless,
have a wonderful week, we love you very much,
and is it Thursday yet?
Good night, guys.
(dramatic music)